---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P215.
date: 1984-01-01 03:35
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 215
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of Valinor by the Noldoli) had like properties, but greater, seeing that for half the twenty-four hours it lit all Valinor with silver light.  This the Eldar still tell of as <I>Silpion</I>or “Cherry-moon”, for its blossom was like that of a cherry in spring - but of that tree in Gondolin they know no name, and the Noldoli tell of it alone.’
</p>

<I>Dor Lómin</I>‘or the “Land of Shadows'' was that region named of the Eldar Hisilómë (and this means Shadowy Twilights) where Melko shut Men, and it is so called by reason of the scanty sun which peeps little over the Iron Mountains to the east and south of it - there dwell now the Shadow Folk. Thence came Tuor to Gondolin.’

<I>Eärendel</I>‘was the son of Tuor and Idril and 'tis said the only being that is half of the kindred of the Eldalië and half of Men. He was the greatest and first of all mariners among Men, and saw regions that Men have not yet found nor gazed upon for all the multitude of their

 boats. He rideth now with Voronwë upon the winds of the firmament nor comes ever further back than Kôr, else would he die like other

 Men, so much of the mortal is in him.’

(For these last statements about Eärendel see pp. 264-5. The<BR>statement that Eärendel was ‘the only being that is half of the

 kindred of the Eldalië and half of Men’ is very notable. Presumably this was written when Beren was an Elf, not a Man (see p. 139);

 Dior  son   of   Beren   and   Tinúviel appears   in   the   <I>Tale  of the</I>

 <I>Nauglafring</I>,but there Beren is an Elf, and Dior is not Half-elven. In the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>itself it is said, but in a later replacement passage (p. 164 and note 22), that Tuor was the first but not the last to wed ‘a daughter of Elfinesse’. On the extraordinary statement in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>that Tamar Lamefoot was Half-elven see p. 130.)

<I>Ecthelion</I>‘was that lord of the house of the Fountain, who had the fairest

voice and was most skilled in musics of all the Gondothlim. He won

renown for ever by his slaying of Gothmog son of Melko, whereby

Tuor was saved from death but Ecthelion was drowned with his foe

 in the king's fountain.’

<I>Egalmoth</I>was ‘lord of the house of the Heavenly Arch, and got even out<BR> of the burning of Gondolin, and dwelt after at the mouth of Sirion,<BR>but was slain in a dire battle there when Melko seized Elwing’.<BR>(See p. 258.)

 <I>Galdor</I>‘was that valiant Gnome who led the men of the Tree in many a

 charge and yet won out of Gondolin and even the onslaught of

 Melko upon the dwellers at Sirion's mouth and went back to the

 ruins with Eärendel. He dwelleth yet in Tol Eressëa (said Elfriniel),

 and still do some of his folk name themselves <I>Nos Galdon</I>,for

<I> Galdon</I>is a tree, and thereto Galdor's name akin.’ The last phrase

 was emended to read: <I>‘Nos nan Alwen, for Alwen</I>is a Tree.’<BR>

