---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P65.
date: 1984-01-01 01:05
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 65
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
manuscript and typescript versions of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel </I>do not envisage precisely the same situation.
</p>

The manuscript text is perhaps not perfectly explicit on the subject, but it is said (p. 9) that of Tinwelint's subjects <I>‘the most </I>were Ilkorindi’, and that before the rising of the Sun ‘already were their numbers mingled with a many wandering Gnomes'. Yet Dairon fled from the apparition of Beren in the forest because ‘all the Elves of the woodland thought of the Gnomes of Dor Lómin as treacherous creatures, cruel and faithless’ (p. 11); and ‘Dread and suspicion was between the Eldar and those of their kindred that had tasted the slavery of Melko, and in this did the evil deeds of the Gnomes at the Haven of the Swans revenge itself (p. 11). The hostility of the Elves of Artanor to Gnomes was, then, specifically a hostility to the Gnomes of Hisilómë (Dor Lómin), who were suspected of being under the will of Melko (and this is probably a foreshadowing of the suspicion and rejection of Elves escaped from Angband described in <I>The Silmarillion </I>p. 156). In the manuscript it is said (p. 9) that <I>all </I>the Elves of the Great Lands (those who remained in Palisor, those who were lost on the march, and the Noldoli returned from Valinor) fell beneath the power of Melko, though many escaped and wandered in the wild; and as the manuscript text was first written (see p. 11 and note 3) Beren was ‘son of a thrall of Melko's . . . that laboured in the darker places in the north of Hisilómë’. This conception seems reasonably clear, so far as it goes.

In the typescript version it is expressly stated that there were Gnomes ‘in Tinwelint's service’ (p. 43): the bridge over the forest river, leading to Tinwelint's door, was hung by them. It is not now stated that all the Elves of the Great Lands fell beneath Melko; rather there are named several centres of resistance to his power, in addition to Tinwelint Thingol in Artanor: Turgon of Gondolin, the Sons of Fëanor, and Egnor of Hisilómë (Beren's father) - one of the chiefest foes of Melko ‘in all the kin of the Gnomes that still were free’ (p. 44). Presumably this led to the exclusion in the typescript of the passage telling that the woodland Elves thought of the Gnomes of Dor Lómin as treacherous and faithless (see p. 43), while that concerning the distrust of those who had been Melko's slaves was retained. The passage concerning Hisilómë ‘where dwelt Men, and thrall-Noldoli laboured, and few free-Eldar went’ (p. 10) was also retained; but Hisilómë, in Beren's wish that he had never strayed out of it, becomes ‘the wild free places of Hisilómë’ (pp. 17, 45).

This leads to an altogether baffling question, that of the references to the Battle of Unnumbered Tears; and several of the passages just cited bear on it.

The story of ‘The Travail of the Noldoli and the Coming of Mankind’ that was to have been told by Gilfanon, but which after its opening pages most unhappily never got beyond the stage of outline projections, was to be followed by that of Beren and Tinúviel (see 1.241). After the Battle of Unnumbered Tears there is mention of the Thraldom of the Noldoli, the Mines of Melko, the Spell of Bottomless Dread, the shutting of Men in

