---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P214.
date: 1984-01-01 03:34
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 214
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
In the tale appears the keen-sighted Elf Legolas Greenleaf, first of the names of the Fellowship of the Ring to appear in my father's writings (see p. 217 on this earlier Legolas), followed by Gimli (an Elf) in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>.
</p>

In one point the story of the ambush in Cristhorn seems difficult to follow: this is the statement on p. 193 that the moon ‘lit not the path for the height of the walls'. The fugitives were moving southwards through the Encircling Mountains, and the sheer rockwall above the path in the Eagles' Cleft was ‘of the right or westerly hand’, while on the left there was ‘a fall... dreadly steep’. Surely then the moon rising in the east would illuminate the path?

The name <I>Cristhorn</I> appears in my father's drawing of ‘Gondolin and the Vale of Tumladin from Cristhorn’, September 1928 (<I>Pictures by J. R. R. Tolkien</I>, 1979, no. 35).

(viii) <I>The wanderings of the Exiles of Gondolin</I> (pp. 195-7)

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 243) it is said that ‘led by Tuor son of Huor the remnant of Gondolin passed over the mountains, and came down into the Vale of Sirion’. One would suppose that they came down into Dimbar, and so ‘fleeing southward by weary and dangerous marches they came at length to Nan-tathren, the Land of Willows'. It seems strange in the tale that the exiles were wandering in the wilderness for more than a year, and yet achieved only to the outer entrance of the Way of Escape; but the geography of this region may have been vaguer when <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> was written.

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> when Tuor and Idril went down from Nan-tathren to the mouths of Sirion they ‘joined their people to the company of Elwing, Dior's daughter, that had fled thither but a little while before’. Of this there is no mention here; but I postpone consideration of this part of the narrative.

§2 <I>Entries in the Name-list to The Fall of Gondolin</I>

On this list see p. 148, where the head-note to it is given. Specifically linguistic information from the list, including meanings, is incorporated in the Appendix on Names, but I collect here some statements of other kind (arranged in alphabetical order) that are contained in it.

<I>Bablon</I> ‘was a city of Men, and more rightly <I>Babylon</I>, but such is the Gnomes' name as they now shape it, and they got it from Men aforetime.’

<I>Bansil</I>‘Now this name had the Gondothlim for that tree before their king's door which bore silver blossom and faded not - and its name had Elfriniel from his father Voronwë; and it meaneth “Fairgleam”. Now that tree of which it was a shoot (brought in the deep ages out

