---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P321.
date: 1984-01-01 05:21
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 321
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
yielded. Then fell the wind and no breath came from East or West, and night came slowly over the sea.
</p>

Behold, at length a gentle breeze sprang up, and it came softly from the West; and even as they would fill their sails therewith for home, one of those shipmen on a sudden said: ‘Nay, but this is a strange air, and full of scented memories,’ and standing still they all breathed deep. The mists gave before that gentle wind, and a thin moon they might see riding in its tattered shreds, until behind it soon a thousand cool stars peered forth in the dark. ‘The night-flowers are opening in Faëry,’ said Ælfwine; ‘and behold,’ said Bior,<SUP>41</SUP> ‘the Elves are kindling candles in their silver dusk,’ and all looked whither his long hand pointed over their dark stern. Then none spoke for wonder and amaze, seeing deep in the gloaming of the West a blue shadow, and in the blue shadow many glittering lights, and ever more and more of them came twinkling out, until ten thousand points of flickering radiance were splintered far away as if a dust of the jewels self-luminous that Fëanor made were scattered on the lap of the Ocean.

‘Then is that the Harbour of the Lights of Many Hues,’ said Ælfheah, ‘that many a little-heeded tale has told of in our homes.’ Then saying no more they shot out their oars and swung about their ship in haste, and pulled towards the never-dying shore. Near had they come to abandoning it when hardly won. Little did they make of that long pull, as they thrust the water strongly by them, and the long night of Faerie held on, and the horned moon of Elfinesse rode over them.

Then came there music very gently over the waters and it was laden with unimagined longing, that Ælfwine and his comrades leant upon their oars and wept softly each for his heart's half-remembered hurts, and memory of fair things long lost, and each for the thirst that is in every child of Men for the flawless loveliness they seek and do not find. And one said: ‘It is the harps that are thrumming, and the songs they are singing of fair things; and the windows that look upon the sea are full of light.’ And another said: ‘Their stringed violins complain the ancient woes of the immortal folk of Earth, but there is a joy therein.’ ‘Ah me,’ said Ælfwine, ‘I hear the horns of the Fairies shimmering in magic woods - such music as I once dimly guessed long years ago beneath the elms of Mindon Gwar.’

And lo! as they spoke thus musing the moon hid himself, and the stars were clouded, and the mists of time veiled the shore,

