---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P306.
date: 1984-01-01 05:06
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 306
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
How he prophesied that his kin should fare back again and possess Luthany until the days of the coming of the Elves.
</p>

How the land of Luthany was seven times invaded by Men, until at the seventh the children of the children of Ing came back to their own.

How at each new war and invasion the Elves faded, and each loved the Elves less, until the Rúmhoth came - and they did not even believe they existed, and the Elves all fled, so that save for a few the isle was empty of the Elves for three hundred years.

<B>(23) </B>How Ingwë drank <I>limpë</I> at the hands of the Elves and reigned ages in Luthany.

How Eärendel came to Luthany to find the Elves gone.

How Ingwë aided him, but was not suffered to go with him. Eärendel blessed all his progeny as the mightiest sea-rovers of the world.<SUP>16</SUP>

How Ossë made war upon Ingwë because of Eärendel, and Ing longing for the Elves set sail, and all were wrecked after being driven far east.

How Ing the immortal came among the Dani OroDáni Urdainoth East Danes.

How he became the half-divine king of the Ingwaiwar, and taught them many things of Elves and Gods, so that some true knowledge of the Gods and Elves lingered in that folk alone.

Part of another outline that does not belong with the foregoing passages but covers the same part of the narrative as (23) may be given here:

<B>(24) </B>Eärendel takes refuge with [Ingwë] from the wrath of Ossë, and<BR>gives him a draught of <I>limpë</I> (enough to assure immortality).<BR>He gives him news of the Elves and the dwelling on Tol Eressëa.<BR>Ingwë and a host of his folk set sail to find Tol Eressëa, but<BR>Ossë blows them back east. They are utterly wrecked. Only Ingwë<BR>rescued on a raft. He becomes king of the Angali, Euti, Saksani,<BR>and Firisandi,\* who adopt the title of Ingwaiwar. He teaches<BR>them much magic and first sets men's hearts to seafaring west- <BR>ward. .....

After a great [?age of rule] Ingwë sets sail in a little boat and is heard of no more.

It is clear that the intrusion of Luthany, and Ing(wë), into the conception has caused a movement in the story of Eärendel: whereas in the older version he went to Tol Eressëa after the departure of the Eldar and Noldoli from the Great Lands (pp. 253, 255), now he goes to

