---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P271.
date: 1984-01-01 04:31
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 271
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The song I can sing is but shreds one remembers <SUB><BR></SUB>Of golden imaginings fashioned in sleep,
</p>

A whispered tale told by the withering embers 35<BR>Of old things far off that but few hearts keep.’

<I>The Shores of Faery</I>

This poem is given in its earliest form by Humphrey Carpenter, <I>Bio- <BR>graphy, </I>pp. 76-7.<SUP>11</SUP> It exists in four versions each as usual incorporating<BR>slight changes; my father wrote the date of its composition on three of the<BR>copies, viz. ‘July 8-9, 1915’; ‘Moseley and Edgbaston, Birmingham July<BR>1915 (walking and on bus). Retouched often since-esp. 1924’; and ‘First<BR>poem of my mythology, Valinor.......... 1910’. This last cannot have

been intended for the date of composition, and the illegible words preceding it may possibly be read as ‘thought of about’. But it does not in any case appear to have been ‘the first poem of the mythology’: that, I believe, was <I>Éalá Éarendel Engla Beorhtast - </I>and my father's mention of this poem in his letter of 1967 (see p. 266) seems to suggest this also. The Old English title was <I>Ielfalandes Strand </I>(The Shores of Elfland). It is preceded by a short prose preface which has been given above, p. 262. I give it here in the latest version (undateable), with all readings from the earliest in footnotes.

East of the Moon, west of the Sun

There stands a lonely hill;

Its feet are in the pale green sea,

Its towers are white and still,

Beyond Taniquetil 5

In Valinor.

Comes never there but one lone star

That fled before the moon;

And there the Two Trees naked are

That bore Night's silver bloom, 10

That bore the globed fruit of Noon

In Valinor.

There are the shores of Faery

