---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P62.
date: 1984-01-01 01:02
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 62
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
This seems to support the suggestion that the mountains fencing Hisilómë from the Lands Beyond were continuous with those above Angband; and we may compare the little primitive map (I.81), where the mountain range <I>f</I> isolates Hisilómë <I>(g): </I>see 1.112, 135. The implication is that ‘dim’ or ‘black’ Hisilómë had no defence against Melko.
</p>

There appear now also the Mountains of Night (pp. 20, 46-7), and it seems clear that the great pinewoods of Taurfuin, the Forest of Night, grew upon those heights (in <I>The Silmarillion </I>Dorthonion ‘Land of Pines', afterwards named Taur-nu-Fuin). Dairon was lost there, but Tinúviel, though she passed near, did not enter ‘that dark region’. There is nothing to show that it was not placed then as it was later - to the east of Ered Wethrin, the Mountains of Shadow. It is also at least possible that the description (in the manuscript version only, p. 23) of Tinúviel, on departing from Huan, leaving ‘the shelter of the trees' and coming to ‘a region of long grass’ is a first intimation of the great plain of Ard-galen (called after its desolation Anfauglith and Dor-nu-Fauglith), especially if this is related to the passage in the typescript version telling of Tinúviel's meeting with Huan ‘in a little glade nigh to the forest's borders, where the first grasslands begin that are nourished by the upper waters of the river Sirion’ (p. 47).

After their escape from Angamandi Huan found Beren and Tinúviel ‘in that northward region of Artanor that was called afterward Nan Dumgorthin, the land of the dark idols'(p. 35). In the Gnomish dictionary <I>Nan Dumgorthin </I>is defined as ‘a land of dark forest east of Artanor where on a wooded mountain were hidden idols sacrificed to by some evil tribes of renegade men’ <I>(dum </I>‘secret, not to be spoken’, <I>dumgort, dungort </I>‘an (evil) idol’). In the <I>Lay of the Children of Húrin </I>in alliterative verse Turin and his companion Flinding (later Gwindor), fleeing after the death of Beleg Strongbow, came to this land:

There the twain enfolded    phantom twilight

and dim mazes    dark, unholy,

in Nan Dungorthin    where nameless gods

have shrouded shrines    in shadows secret,

more old than Morgoth   or the ancient lords

the golden Gods    of the guarded West.

But the ghostly dwellers    of that grey valley

hindered nor hurt them,     and they held their course

with creeping flesh    and quaking limb.

Yet laughter at whiles    with lingering echo,

as distant mockery    of demon voices

there harsh and hollow    in the hushed twilight

Funding fancied,     fell, unwholesome . . .

There are, I believe, no other references to the gods of Nan Dumgorthin. In the poem the land was placed west of Sirion; and finally, as Nan

