---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P133.
date: 1984-01-01 02:13
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 133
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The pleasant place (‘a green sward where grew a wealth of flowers') survived; cf. the <I>Narn </I>p. 123: ‘There was a wide greensward at the head of the falls, and birches grew about it.’ So also did the ‘Silver Bowl’, though the name was lost: ‘the stream [Celebros] went over a lip of worn stone, and fell down by many foaming steps into a rocky bowl far below’ <I>(Narn, ibid.</I>; cf. the tale p. 105: ‘it fell over a great fall where the water-worn rock jutted smooth and grey from amid the grass’). The ‘little hill’ or ‘knoll’, ‘islanded among the trees', from which Turambar and his companions looked out is not so described in the <I>Narn, </I>but the picture of a high place and lookout near the head of the falls remained, as may be seen from the statement in the <I>Narn </I>(p. 123) that from Nen Girith ‘there was a wide view towards the ravines of Teiglin’; later <I>(Narn </I>p. 128) it is said that it was Turambar's intention to ‘ride to the high fall of Nen Girith . . . whence he could look far across the lands'. It seems certain, then, that the old image never faded, and was only a little changed.
</p>

While in both old and late accounts a great concourse of the people follow Turambar to the head of the falls against his bidding, in the late his motive for commanding them not to come is explicit: they are to remain in their homes and prepare for flight. Here on the other hand Níniel rides with Turambar to the head of Silver Bowl and says farewell to him there. But a detail of the old story survived: Turambar's words to Níniel ‘Nor thou nor I die this day, nor yet tomorrow, by the evil of the dragon or by the foemen's swords' are closely paralleled by his words to her in the Narn (p. 129): ‘Neither you nor I shall be slain by this Dragon, nor by any foe of the North’; and in the one account Níniel ‘quelled her weeping and was very still’, while in the other she ‘ceased to weep and fell silent’. The situation is generally simpler in the tale, in that the Woodmen are scarcely characterised; Tamar is not as Brandir the titular head of the people, and this motive for bitterness against Turambar is absent, nor is there a Dorlas to insult him or a Hunthor to rebuke Dorlas. Tamar is however present with Níniel at the same point in the story, having girded himself with a sword: ‘and many scoffed at him for that’, just as it is afterwards said of Brandir that he had seldom done so before <I>(Narn</I>

p.134).

Turambar here set out from the head of the falls with six companions, all of whom proved in the end fainthearted, whereas later he had only two, Dorlas and Hunthor, and Hunthor remained staunch, though killed by a falling stone in the gorge. But the result is the same, in that Turambar must climb the further cliff of the gorge alone. Here the dragon remained where he lay near the brink of the cliff all night, and only moved with the dawn, so that his death and the events that immediately followed it took place by daylight. But in other respects the killing of the dragon remained even in many details much as it was originally written, more especially if comparison is made with the <I>Narn </I>(p. 134), where there reappears the need for Turambar and his

