---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P263.
date: 1984-01-01 04:23
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 263
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
(ii) ‘The Oarni give to Eärendel a wonderful shining silver coat that wets not. They love Eärendel, in Ossë's despite, and teach him the lore of boat-building and of swimming, as he plays with them about the shores of Sirion.’ - In the outlines are found references to the love of the Oarni for Eärendel (D, p. 259), the coming of the mermaids to him (E, p. 260), and to Ossë's enmity (C, p. 254).
</p>

(iii) Eärendel was smaller than most men but nimble-footed and a swift swimmer (but Voronwë could not swim).

(iv) ‘Idril and Eärendel see Tuor's boat dropping into the twilight and a sound of song.’-In B Tuor's sailing is ‘secret’ (p. 253), in C'Idril sees him too late’ (p. 254), and in E Eärendel is present at Tuor's departure and thrusts the boat out: ‘he hears a great song swelling from the sea’ (p. 260).

(v) ‘Death of Idril? - follows secretly after Tuor.’ - That Idril died is denied in C: ‘Tuor and Idril some say sail now in Swanwing . . .’ (p. 255); in D Idril swam after him (p. 260).

(vi) ‘Tuor has sailed back to Falasquil and so back up Ilbranteloth to Asgon where he sits playing on his lonely harp on the islanded rock.’ -This is marked with a query and an 'X' implying rejection of the idea. There are curious references to the ‘islanded rock’ in Asgon in the outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I>(see I.238).

(vii) ‘The fiord of the Mermaid: enchantment of his sailors. Mermaids are not Oarni (but are earthlings, or fays? - or both).’ - In D (p. 259) Mermaids and Oarni are equated.

(viii) The ship Wingilot was built of wood from Falasquil with ‘aid of the Oarni’. - This was probably said also in D: see p. 260.

(ix) Wingilot was ‘shaped as a swan of pearls'.

(x) ‘The doves and pigeons of Turgon's courtyard bring message to Valinor - only to Elves.’ - Other references to the birds that flew from Gondolin also say that they came to the Elves, or to Kôr (pp. 253, 255,

257).

(xi) ‘During his voyages Eärendel sights the white walls of Kôr gleaming afar off, but is carried away by Ossë's adverse winds and waves.’ -The same is said in B (p. 253) of Eärendel's sighting of Tol Eressëa on his homeward voyage from Kôr.

(xii) ‘The Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl awakened by Littleheart's gong: a messenger that was despatched years ago by Turgon and enmeshed in magics. Even now he cannot leave the Tower and warns them of the magic.’- In C there is a statement, rejected, that the Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl was Idril herself (see note 6).

(xiii) ‘Ulmo's protection removed from Sirion in wrath at Eärendel's second attempt to Mandos, and hence Melko overwhelmed it.’ - This note is struck through, with an 'X' written against it; but in D (p. 260) it is said that ‘Ulmo forbade his quest but Eärendel would yet sail to find a passage to Mandos’. The meaning of this must be that it was contrary to Ulmo's purpose that Eärendel should seek to Mandos for his father, but must rather attempt to reach Kôr.

