---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P213.
date: 1984-01-01 03:33
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 213
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
existed in ‘hundreds' (p. 170),* and were slain by Tuor and the Gondothlim in large numbers: thus five fell before Tuor's great axe Dramborleg, three before Ecthelion's sword, and two score were slain by the warriors of the king's house. The Balrogs are ‘demons of power’ (p. 181); they are capable of pain and fear (p. 194); they are attired in iron armour (pp. 181, 194), and they have whips of flame (a character they never lost) and claws of steel (pp. 169, 179).
</p>

In <I>The Silmarillion</I>the dragons that came against Gondolin were ‘of the brood of Glaurung’, which ‘were become now many and terrible’; whereas in the tale the language employed (p. 170) suggests that some at least of the ‘Monsters' were inanimate ‘devices', the construction of smiths in the forges of Angband. But even the ‘things of iron’ that ‘opened about their middles' to disgorge bands of Orcs are called ‘ruthless beasts', and Gothmog ‘bade’ them ‘pile themselves’ (p. 176); those made of bronze or copper ‘were given hearts and spirits of blazing fire’; while the ‘fire-drake’ that Tuor hewed screamed and lashed with its tail (p. 181).

A small detail of the narrative is curious: what ‘messengers' did Meglin send to Melko to warn him to guard the outer entrance of the Way of Escape (where he guessed that the secret tunnel must lead in the end)? Whom could Meglin trust sufficiently? And who would dare to go?

The story as told in <I>The Silmarillion</I>(p. 243) is somewhat fuller in its account of the escape of the fugitives from the city and the ambush in the Eagles' Cleft (there called Cirith Thoronath) than in that of the assault and sack itself, but only in one point are the two narratives actually at variance - as already noticed, the Eagles' Cleft was afterwards moved from the southern parts of the Encircling Mountains to the northern, and Idril's tunnel led north from the city (the comment is made that it was not thought ‘that any fugitives would take a path towards the north and the highest parts of the mountains and the nighest to Angband’). The tale provides a richness of detail and an immediacy that is lacking in the short version, where such things as the tripping over dead bodies in the hot and reeking underground passage have disappeared; and there is no mention of the Gondothlim who against the counsel of Idril and Tuor went to the Way of Escape and were there destroyed by the dragon lying in wait.† or of the fight to rescue Eärendel.

