---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P138.
date: 1984-01-01 02:18
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 138
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
nowhere is there any explanation given - though in much later versions of the mythology Túrin Turambar appears in the Last Battle and smites Morgoth with his black sword. The purifying bath into which Túrin and Nienóri entered, called <I>Fôs'Almir</I>in the final text, was in the rejected text named <I>Fauri;</I>in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>it has been described (I.187), but is there given other names: <I>Tanyasalpë, Faskala-númen</I>,and <I>Faskalan</I>.
</p>

There remains one further scrap of text to be considered. The second of the rejected outlines given above (pp. 136—7) was written in ink over a pencilled outline that was <I>not</I>erased, and I have been able to disinter a good deal of it from beneath the later writing. The two passages have nothing to do with each other; for some reason my father did not trouble in this case to erase earlier writing. The underlying text, so far as I can make it out, reads:

Tirannë and Vainóni fall in with the evil magician Kurúki who gives<BR>them a baneful drink. They forget their names and wander distraught<BR>in the woods. Vainóni is lost. She meets Turambar who saves her from<BR>Orcs and aids in her search for her mother. They are wed and live in<BR>happiness. Turambar becomes lord of rangers of the woods and a<BR>harrier of the Orcs. He goes to seek out the Foalókë which ravages his<BR>land. The treasure-heap - and flight of his band. He slays the Foalókë<BR>and is wounded. Vainóni succours him, but the dragon in dying tells<BR>her all, lifting the veil Kurúki has set over them. Anguish of Turambar<BR>and Vainóni. She flees into the woods and casts herself over a waterfall.<BR>Madness of Turambar who dwells alone .......... Úrin escapes

from Angamandi and seeks Tirannë. Turambar flees from him and<BR>falls upon his sword. ......................... Úrin builds a cairn

and ............ doom of Melko. Tirannë dies of grief and Úrin

reaches Hisilómë. ..........................................

Purification of Turambar and Vainóni who fare shining about the<BR>world and go with the hosts of Tulkas against Melko.

Detached jottings follow this, doubtless written at the same time:

Úrin escapes. Tirannë learns of Túrin. Both wander distraught... in

the wood.

Túrin leaves Linwë for in a quarrel he slew one of Linwë's kin

(accidentally).

Introduce Failivrin element into the story?

Turambar unable to fight because of Foalókë's eyes. Sees Failivrin

depart.

This can only represent some of my father's very earliest meditations on the story of Túrin Turambar. (That it appears in the notebook at the

