---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P329.
date: 1984-01-01 05:29
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 329
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Thompson's poem <I>The Mistress of Vision</I>. As noted previously (I.29) my father acquired the Collected Poems of Francis Thompson in 1913-14; and in that copy he made a marginal note against one of the verses that contains the name <I>Luthany</I> - though the note is not concerned with the name. But whence Thompson derived <I>Luthany</I> I have no idea. He himself described the poem as ‘a fantasy’ (Everard Meynell, <I>The Life of Francis Thompson</I>, 1913, p. 237).
</p>

This provides no more than the origin of the name as a series of sounds, as with <I>Kôr</I> from Rider Haggard's <I>She,\*</I> or <I>Rohan</I> and <I>Moria</I> mentioned in my father's letter of 1967 on this subject (<I>The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien</I>, pp. 383-4), in which he said:

This leads to the matter of ‘external history’: the actual way in which I came to light on or choose certain sequences of sound to use as names, <I>before</I> they were given a place inside the story. I think, as I said, this is unimportant: the labour involved in my setting out what I know and remember of the process, or in the guess-work of others, would be far greater than the worth of the results. The spoken forms would simply be mere audible forms, and when transferred to the prepared linguistic situation in my story would receive meaning and significance according to that situation, and to the nature of the story told. It would be entirely delusory to refer to the sources of the sound-combination to discover any meanings overt or hidden.

15 The position is complicated by the existence of some narrative outlines of extreme roughness and near-illegibility in which the mariner is named Ælfwine and yet essential elements of ‘the <I>Eriol</I> story’ are present. These I take to represent an intermediate stage. They are very obscure, and would require a great deal of space to present and discuss; therefore I pass them by.

16 Cf. p. 264 (xiv).

17 <I>Caer Gwâr:</I> see p. 292.

18 It may be mentioned here that when my father read <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> to the Exeter College Essay Club in the spring of 1920 the mariner was still <I>Eriol</I>, as appears from the notes for his preliminary remarks on that occasion (see <I>Unfinished Tales</I> p. 5). He said here, very strangely, that ‘Eriol lights by accident on the Lonely Island’.

19 <I>Gársecg</I> (pronounced <I>Garsedge</I>, and so written in <I>Ælfwine A</I>) was one of the many Old English names of the sea.

20 In <I>Ælfwine I</I> the land is likewise named <I>Lúthien</I>, not <I>Luthany</I>. In <I>Ælfwine A</I>, on the other hand, the same distinction is made as in the outlines: ‘Ælfwine of England (whom the fairies after named

\* There is no external evidence for this, but it can hardly be doubted. In this case it might be thought that since the African Kôr was a city built on the top of a great mountain standing in isolation the relationship was more than purely ‘phonetic’.

