---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P343.
date: 1984-01-01 05:43
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 343
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
also in NFG; GL glosses it ‘watchtower (especially as a name of Gondolin)’. A late entry in GL gives <I>estirin, estirion, estrin</I>
</p>

‘pinnacle’, beside <I>esc</I> ‘sharp point, sharp edge’. The second element

<B>Gwedheling </B>See I.273 <I>(Wendelin).<BR><BR></I> <B>Heborodin </B>‘The Encircling Hills.’ Gnomish preposition <I>heb</I> ‘round

about, around’; <I>hebrim</I> ‘boundary’, <I>hebwirol</I> ‘circumspect’. For <I> orod</I> see I.256 <I>(Kalormë</I>).

<B>Hirilorn </B>GL gives <I>hiril</I> ‘queen (a poetic use), princess; feminine of

<I>bridhon’</I>. For <I>bridhon</I> see <I>Tevildo</I>. The second element is <I>orn</I> ‘tree’. (It may be mentioned here that the word <I>neldor</I> ‘beech’ is found in QL; see the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion</I>, entry <I>neldor</I>).

<B>Idril </B>For Gnomish <I>idril</I> ‘sweetheart’ see <I>Cûm an-ldrisaith</I>. There is

<I></I> another entry in GL as follows: <I>Idhril</I> ‘a girl's name often confused

 with <I>Idril. Idril =</I> “beloved” but <I>Idhril</I> = “mortal maiden”. Both

 appear to have been the names of the daughter of Turgon - or

apparently <I>Idril</I> was the older and the Kor-eldar called her <I>Irildë (</I>=

<I>Idhril</I>) because she married Tuor.’ Elsewhere in GL appear <I>idhrin</I>

‘men, earth-dwellers; especially used as a folk-name contrasted with

 <I>Eglath</I> etc.; cf. Qenya <I>indf</I>, and <I>Idhru, Idhrubar</I> ‘the world, all the

regions inhabited by Men; cf. Qenya <I>irmin’</I>. In QL these words

<I>indi</I> and <I>irmin</I> are given under root IRI ‘dwell?’, with <I>inn</I> ‘town’,

 <I>indo</I> ‘house’, <I>indor</I> ‘master of house’ (see <I>Indor</I>), etc.; but <I>Irildë</I>

<I></I> does not appear. Similar words are found in Gnomish: <I>ind, indos</I>

<I></I> ‘house, hall’, <I>indor</I> ‘master (of house), lord’.

After the entry in NFG on <I>Idril</I> which has been cited (p. 216) a

 further note was added: ‘and her name meaneth “Beloved”, but<BR>often do Elves say <I>Idhril</I> which more rightly compares with <I>Irildë<BR></I>and that meaneth “mortal maiden”, and perchance signifies her<BR>wedding with Tuor son of Men.’ An isolated note (written in fact on<BR>a page of the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I>) says: ‘Alter name of <I>Idril</I> to<BR><I>Idhril</I>. The two were confused: <I>Idril</I> = “beloved”, <I>Idhril =</I> “maiden<BR>of mortals”. The Elves thought this her name and called her <I>Irildë<BR></I>(because she married Tuor Pelecthon).’<BR><B>Ilbranteloth </B>See Cm <I>Ilbranteloth.<BR></I><B>Ilfiniol, Ilfrith </B>See I.255 <I>(Ilverin</I>).

<B>Ilúvatar </B>An entry in NFG may be noticed here: <I>‘En</I> do the mystic sayings of the Noldoli also name <I>Ilathon</I> [emended <I>from Âd Ilon]</I>, who is Ilúvatar-and this is like the Eldar <I>Enu.’</I> QL gives <I>Enu</I>, the

Almighty Creator who dwells without the world. For <I>Ilathon</I> see<BR>I.255-6 <I>(Ilwë).<BR></I><B>Indor </B>(Father of Tuor's father Peleg). This is perhaps the word <I>indor<BR></I> ‘master (of house), lord’ (see <I>Idril</I>) used as a proper name.

