---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P59.
date: 1984-01-01 00:59
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 59
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
There is a curious feature in the story of the Wolf-hunt (pp. 38-9) which may be considered here (see p. 50, notes 12-15). At first, it was Tinúviel's brother who took part in the hunt with Tinwelint, Beren, and Huan, and his name is here <I>Tifanto</I>, which was the name throughout the tale before its replacement <I>by Dairon.*</I> Subsequently ‘Tifanto’-without passing through the stage of ‘Dairon’ - was replaced by ‘Mablung the heavy-handed, chief of the king's thanes', who here makes his first appearance, as the fourth member of the hunt. But earlier in the tale it is told that Tifanto > Dairon, leaving Artanor to seek Tinúviel, became utterly lost, ‘and came never back to Elfinesse’ (p. 21), and the loss of Tifanto <I>></I> Dairon is referred to again when Beren and Tinúviel returned to Artanor (pp. 36-7).
</p>

Thus on the one hand Tifanto was lost, and it is a grief to Tinúviel on her return to learn of it, but on the other he was present at the Wolf-hunt. <I>Tifanto</I> was then changed to <I>Dairon</I> throughout the tale, except in the story of the Wolf-hunt, where <I>Tifanto</I> was replaced by a new character, <I>Mablung</I>. This shows that <I>Tifanto</I> was removed from the hunt before the change of name to <I>Dairon</I>, but does not explain how, under the name <I>Tifanto</I>, he was both lost in the wilds and present at the hunt. Since there is nothing in the MS itself to explain this puzzle, I can only conclude that my father did, in fact, write at first that Tifanto was lost and never came back, and also that he took part in the Wolf-hunt; but observing this contradiction he introduced Mablung in the latter rôle (and probably did this even before the tale was completed, since at the last appearance of Mablung his name was written thus, not emended from <I>Tifanto:</I> see note 15). It was subsequent to this that <I>Tifanto</I> was emended, wherever it still stood, <I>to Dairon</I>.

In the tale the hunt is differently managed from the story in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (where, incidentally, Beleg Strongbow was present). It is curious that all (including, as it appears, Huan!) save Beren were asleep when Karkaras came on them (‘in Beren's watch’, p. 39). In <I>The Silmarillion</I> Huan slew Carcharoth and was slain by him, whereas here Karkaras met his death from the king's spear, and the boy Ausir tells at the end that Huan lived on to find Beren again at the time of ‘the great deeds of the Nauglafring’ (p. 41). Of Huan's destiny, that he should not die ‘until he encountered the mightiest wolf that would ever walk the world’, and of his being permitted ‘thrice only ere his death to speak with words' <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 173), there is nothing here.

The most remarkable feature of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> remains the fact that in its earliest extant form Beren was an Elf; and in this connection very notable are the words of the boy at the end (p. 40):

