---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P303.
date: 1984-01-01 05:03
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 303
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Of the home-thirst of the Elves and how the greater number sought back to Valinor. The loss of Elwing. How a new home was made by the Solosimpi and others in Tol Eressëa. How the Elves continually sadly leave the world and fare thither.
</p>

For the interpretation of this passage it is essential to realise (the key indeed to the understanding of this projected history) that ‘the Faring Forth’ does <I>not</I> here refer to the Faring Forth in the sense in which it has been used hitherto - that from Tol Eressëa for the Rekindling of the Magic Sun, which ended in ruin, but to the March of the Elves of Kôr and the ‘Loss of Valinor’ that the March incurred (see pp. 253, 257, 280). It is not indeed clear why it is here called a ‘disaster’: but this is evidently to be associated with ‘the war with evil Men’, and war between Elves and Men at the time of the March from Kôr is referred to in citations (1) and (3).

In ‘the <I>Eriol</I> story’ it is explicit that after the March from Kôr the Elves departed from the Great Lands to Tol Eressëa; here on the other hand ‘the war with evil Men’ is followed by ‘the retreat to Luthany where Ingwë was king’. The (partial) departure to Tol Eressëa is from Luthany; the loss of Elwing seems to take place on one of these voyages. As will be seen, the ‘Faring Forth’ of ‘the <I>Eriol</I> story’ has disappeared as an event of Elvish history, and is only mentioned as a prophecy and a hope.

Schematically the essential divergence of the two narrative structures can be shown thus:

March of the Elves of Kôr to the     March of the Elves of Kôr to the<BR>Great Lands Great Lands (called ‘the Faring

Forth’)

War with Men in the Great Lands     War with Men in the Great Lands

Retreat of the Elves to Tol Eressëa   Retreat of the Elves to Luthany<BR>(loss of Elwing) (> England) ruled by Ingwë

Departure of many Elves to Tol<BR>Eressëa (loss of Elwing)

Eriol sails from the East (North     Ælfwine sails from England to Tol<BR>Sea region) to Tol Eressëa Eressëa

The Faring Forth, drawing of Tol Eressëa to the Great Lands; ultimately Tol Eressëa > England

This is of course by no means a full statement of the <I>Ælfwine</I> story, and is merely set out to indicate the radical difference of structure. Lacking from it is the history of Luthany, which emerges from the passages that now follow.

