---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P129.
date: 1984-01-01 02:09
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 129
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of marvels . . . but a rugged cave’, and here he is seen planning a foray to augment his slender wealth in precious things - a far cry from the description of his vast treasury in the <I>Narn</I> (p. 76):
</p>

Now Thingol had in Menegroth deep armouries filled with great wealth of weapons: metal wrought like fishes' mail and shining like water in the moon; swords and axes, shields and helms, wrought by Telchar himself or by his master Gamil Zirak the old, or by elven-wrights more skilful still. For some things he had received in gift that came out of Valinor and were wrought by Fëanor in his mastery, than whom no craftsman was greater in all the days of the world.

Great as are the differences from the later legend in the encounter with the dragon, the stinking vapours raised by his lying in the river as the cause of the miscarriage of the plan, the maddened flight of the horses, and the enspelling of Nienor so that all memory of her past was lost, are already present. Most striking perhaps of the many differences is the fact that Mavwin was present at the conversation with Glorund; and of these speeches there is no echo in the <I>Narn</I> (pp. 118-19), save that Nienor's naming of Túrin as the object of their quest revealed her identity to the dragon (this is explicit in the <I>Narn</I>, and may probably be surmised from the tale). The peculiar tone of Glaurung in the later narrative, sneering and curt, knowing and self-possessed, and unfathomably wicked, can be detected already in the words of Glorund, but as he evolved he gained immeasurably in dread by becoming more laconic.

The chief difference of structure lies in the total absence of the ‘Mablung-element’ from the tale, nor is there any foreshadowing of it. There is no suggestion of an exploration of the sacked dwellings in the dragon's absence (indeed he does not, as it appears, go any distance from them); the purpose of the expedition from Artanor was expressly warlike (‘a strong party against the Foalókë’, ‘they prepared them for battle’), since Tinwelint had hopes of laying hands on the treasure, whereas afterwards it became purely a scouting foray, for Thingol ‘desired greatly to know more of the fate of Nargothrond’ <I>(Narn</I> p. 113).

A curious point is that though Mavwin and Nienóri were to be stationed on the tree-covered ‘high place’ that was afterward called the Hill of Spies, and where they were in fact so stationed in <I>The Silmarillion</I> and the <I>Narn</I>, it seems that in the old story they never got there, but were ensnared by Glorund where he lay in, or not far from, the river. Thus the ‘high place’ had in the event almost no significance in the tale.

(viii) <I>Turambar and Níniel</I> (pp. 99-102)

In the later legend Nienor was found by Mablung after her enspelling by<BR>Glaurung, and with three companions he led her back towards the

