---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P342.
date: 1984-01-01 05:42
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 342
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The corresponding word in Qenya is said to be <I>málos, </I>which does<BR>not appear in QL.
</p>

<B>Gondobar    </B>See <I>Gondolin, </I>and for <I>-bar </I>see I.251 <I>(Eldamar). </I>In GL the form <I>Gondobar </I>was later changed to <I>Gonthobar.</I>

<B>Gondolin   </B>To the entries cited in I.254 may be added that in NFG: <I>‘Gond </I>meaneth a stone, or stone, as doth Elfin <I>on </I>and <I>ondo.’ </I>For the statement about Gondolin (where the name is rendered ‘stone of song’) in NFG see p. 216; and for the latest formulation of the etymology of <I>Gondolin </I>see the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion, entrygond.</I>

<B>Gondothlim    </B>GL has the following entry concerning the word <I>Urn </I>‘many’, Qenya <I>limbë </I>(not in QL): ‘It is frequently suffixed and so becomes a second plural inflexion. In the singular it = English “many a”, <I>nsgolda-lim. </I>It is however most often suffixed to the plural in those nouns making their plural in <I>-th. </I>It then changes to <I>-rim </I>after -<I>l</I>. Hence great confusion with <I>grim </I>“host” and <I>thlim </I>“race”, as in <I>Goldothrim </I>(“the people of the Gnomes”).’ NFG has an entry: <I>‘Gondothlim </I>meaneth “folk of stone” and (saith Rúmil) is <I>Gond </I>“stone”, whereto be added <I>Hoth </I>“folk” and that <I>-lim </I>we Gnomes add after to signify “the many”.’ Cf. <I>Lothlim, Rodothlim, </I>and <I>Orclim </I>in <I>entry Balcmeg; forhoth </I>see <I>Glamhoth.</I>

<B>Gondothlimbar    </B>See <I>Gondolin, Gondothlim, </I>and for <I>-bar </I>see I.251 <I>(Eldamar). </I>In GL the form <I>Gondothlimbar </I>was later changed to <I>‘Gonthoflimar or Gonnothlimar’.</I>

go-    An original entry in GL, later struck out, was: <I>gon- go- </I>‘son of, patronymic prefix (cf. suffix <I>ios/ion/io </I>and Qenya <I>yô, yondo)’. </I>The replacement for this is given above under <I>bo-. </I>See <I>Indorion.</I>

<B>Gon Indor    </B><I>See go-, Indorion.</I>

<B>Gothmog    </B>See pp. 67, 216, and I.258 <I>(Kosomot). </I>GL has <I>mog-</I>‘detest, hate’, <I>mogri </I>‘detestation’, <I>mogrin </I>‘hateful’; Qenya root MOKO ‘hate’. In addition to <I>goth </I>‘war, strife’ (Qenya root KOSO ‘strive’) may be noted <I>gothwen </I>‘battle’, <I>gothweg </I>‘warrior’, <I>gothwin </I>‘Amazon’, <I>gothriol </I>‘warlike’, <I>gothfeng </I>‘war-arrow’, <I>gothwilm </I>‘armistice’.

<B>Gurtholfin    </B>GL: <I>Gurtholfin </I>‘Urdolwen, a sword of Turambar's, Wand of Death’. Also given i<I>s gurthu </I>‘death’ (Qenya <I>urdu; </I>not in QL). The second element of the name is <I>olfin(g) </I>(also <I>olf) </I>‘branch, wand, stick’ (Qenya<I>olwen(n)).</I>

It may be noted that in QL Turambar's sword is given as <I>Sangahyando </I>‘cleaver of throngs', from roots SANGA ‘pack tight, press’ <I>(sanga </I>‘throng’) and HYARA ‘plough through’ <I>(hyar </I>‘plough’, <I>hyanda </I>‘blade, share’). <I>Sangahyando </I>‘Throng-cleaver’ survived to become the name of a man in Gondor (see the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion, </I>entry <I>thang).</I>

<B>Gwar    </B>See I.257 <I>(Kôr, korin).</I>

<B>Gwarestrin    </B>Rendered in the Tale (p. 158) as ‘Tower of Guard’, and so

