---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P54.
date: 1984-01-01 00:54
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 54
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
engagingly Elvish-feline names <I>(Miaugion, Miaulë, Meoita)</I> all disappeared without trace. Did Tevildo? It would scarcely be true, I think, to say even that Sauron ‘originated’ in a cat: in the next phase of the legends the Necromancer (Thû) has no feline attributes. On the other hand it would be wrong to regard it as a simple matter of <I>replacement</I> (Thû stepping into the narrative place vacated by Tevildo) without any element of <I>transformation</I> of what was previously there. Tevildo's immediate successor is ‘the Lord of Wolves', himself a werewolf, and he retains the Tevildo-trait of hating Huan more than any other creature in the world. Tevildo was ‘an evil fay in beastlike shape’ (p. 29); and the battle between the two great beasts, the hound against the werewolf (originally the hound against the demon in feline form) was never lost.
</p>

When the tale returns to Tinúviel in Artanor the situation is quite the reverse: for the story of her imprisonment in the house in Hirilorn and her escape from it never underwent any significant change. The passage in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 172) is indeed very brief, but its lack of detail is due to compression rather than to omission based on dissatisfaction; the <I>Lay of Leithian,</I> from which the prose account in <I>The Silmarillion</I> directly derives, is in this passage so close, in point of narrative detail, to the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> as to be almost identical with it.

It may be observed that in this part of the story the earliest version had a strength that was diminished later, in that the duration of Tinúviel's imprisonment and her journey to Beren's rescue relates readily enough to that of Beren's captivity, which was intended by his captors to be unending; whereas in the later story there is a great deal of event and movement (with the addition of Lúthien's captivity in Nargothrond) to be fitted into the time when Beren was awaiting his death in the dungeon of the Necromancer.

While the strong element of ‘explanatory’ beast-fable (concerning cats and dogs) was to be entirely eliminated, and Tevildo Prince of Cats replaced by the Necromancer, Huan nonetheless remained from it as the great Hound of Valinor. His encounter with Tinúviel in the woods, her inability to escape from him, and indeed his love for her from the moment of their meeting (suggested in the tale, p. 23, explicit in <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 173), were already present, though the context of their encounter and the motives of Huan were wholly different from the absence of ‘the Nargothrond Element’ (Felagund, Celegorm and Curufin).

In the story of the defeat of Tevildo and the rescue of Beren the germ of the later legend is clearly seen, though for the most part only in broad structural resemblances. It is curious to observe that the loud speaking of Tinúviel sitting perched on the sill of the kitchen hatch in the castle of the Cats, so that Beren might hear, is the precursor of her singing on the bridge of Tol-in-Gaurhoth the song that Beren heard in his dungeon <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 174). Tevildo's intention to hand her over to Melko remained in Sauron's similar purpose <I>(ibid.);</I> the killing of the cat

