---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P340.
date: 1984-01-01 05:40
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 340
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<B>34° BOOK OFLOST TALES - VOLUMEII</B>
</p>

<B>Fangluin</B>‘Bluebeard’. See <I>Indrafang</I>. For <I>luin</I> ‘blue’ see I.262 (<I>Nielluin</I>).

<B>Foalókë </B>Under a root FOHO ‘hide, hoard, store up’ QL gives <I>foa</I> ‘hoard, treasure’, <I>foina</I> ‘hidden’, <I>fôlë</I> ‘secrecy, a secret’, <I>fôlinta</I> ‘secretive’, <I>and foalókë</I> ‘name of a serpent that guarded a treasure’. <I>lókë</I> ‘snake’ is derived from a root LOKO ‘twine, twist, curl’.

GL originally had entries <I>fû, fûl, fûn</I> ‘hoard’, <I>fûlug</I> ‘a dragon (who guards treasure)’, and <I>ulug</I> ‘wolf. By later changes this construction was altered to <I>fuis</I> ‘hoard’, <I>fuithlug, -og</I> (the form that appears in the text, p. 70), <I>ulug</I> ‘dragon’ (cf. Qenya <I>lókë</I>). An entry in NFG reads: <I>‘Lûg is lókë</I> of the Eldar, and meaneth “drake”.’

<B>Fôs'Almir </B>(Earlier name of <I>Faskala-núnten;</I> translated in the text (p. 115) ‘the bath of flame’.) <I>For fôs</I> ‘bath’ see I.253 (<I>Faskala-núnten</I>). GL gives three names: <I>‘Fôs Aura, Fôs'Almir</I>, and <I>Fôs na Ngalmir</I>, i.e. Sun's bath = the Western Sea.’ For <I>Galmir, Aur</I>, names of the Sun, see I.254 and I .271 (<I>Ûr</I>).

<B>Fuithlug</B>See <I>Foalókë</I>.

<B>Galdor</B>For the entry in NFG concerning Galdor see p. 215; as first written <I>galdon</I> was there said to mean ‘tree’, and Galdor's people to be named <I>Nos Galdon. Galdon</I> is not in GL. Subsequently <I>galdon</I> > <I>alwen</I>, and <I>alwen</I> does appear in GL, as a word of poetic vocabulary: <I>alwen</I> ’= <I>orn’. -</I> Cf. Qenya <I>alda</I> ‘tree’ (see I.249 (<I>Aldaron)</I>), and the later relationship Quenya <I>alda</I>, Sindarin <I>galadh</I>.

<B>Gar Thurion </B>NFG has the earlier form <I>Gar Furion</I> (p. 202), and GL <I>has furn, furion</I> ‘secret, concealed’, <I>also fûr</I> ‘a lie’ (Qenya <I>furu</I>) and <I>fur-</I> ‘to conceal; to lie’. QL has <I>furin</I> and <I>hurin</I> ‘hidden, concealed’ (root FURU or HURU). With <I>Thurion</I> cf. <I>Thuringwethil</I> ‘Woman of Secret Shadow’, and <I>Thurin</I> ‘the Secret’, Finduilas’ name for Túrin

(<I>Unfinished Tales</I> pp. 157,159).

<B>Gil</B>See I.256(Ingil).

<B>Gilim</B>SeeI.26o(Melko).

<B>Gimli</B>GL has <I>gimli</I> ‘(sense of) hearing’, with <I>gim-</I> ‘hear’, <I>gimriol</I> ‘attentive’ (changed to ‘audible’), <I>gimri</I> ‘hearkening, attention’. The hearing of Gimli, the captive Gnome in the dungeons of Tevildo, ‘was the keenest that has been in the world’ (p. 29).

<B>Glamhoth</B>GL defines this as ‘name given by the Goldothrim to the Orcin: People of Dreadful Hate’ (cf. ‘folk of dreadful hate’, p. 160). For <I>Goldothrim</I> see I.262 (<I>Noldoli</I>). The first element is <I>glâm</I> ‘hatred, loathing’; other words are <I>glantri</I> ‘bitter feud’, <I>glamog</I> ‘loathsome’. An entry in NFG says: <I>‘Glam</I> meaneth “fierce hate” and even as <I>Gwar</I> has no kindred words in Eldar.’

For <I>hoth</I> ‘folk’ see I.264 (<I>orchoth</I> in entry <I>Orc</I>), and cf. <I>Goldothrim, Gondothlim, Rúmhoth, Thornhoth</I>. Under root HOSO QL gives <I>has</I> ‘folk’, <I>hossë</I> ‘army, band, troop’, <I>hostar</I> ‘tribe’,

