---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P266.
date: 1984-01-01 04:26
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 266
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
It is interesting to read my father's statement, made some half-century later (in the letter of 1967 referred to above), concerning the origins of Eärendil:
</p>

This name is in fact (as is obvious) derived from Anglo-Saxon <I>éarendel</I>. When first studying Anglo-Saxon professionally (1913- )

-I had done so as a boyish hobby when supposed to be learning Greek and Latin - I was struck by the great beauty of this word (or name), entirely coherent with the normal style of Anglo-Saxon, but euphonic to a peculiar degree in that pleasing but not ‘delectable’ language. Also its form strongly suggests that it is in origin a proper name and not a common noun. This is borne out by the obviously related forms in

•other Germanic languages; from which amid the confusions and debasements of late traditions it at least seems certain that it belonged to astronomical-myth, and was the name of a star or star-group. To my mind the Anglo-Saxon uses seem plainly to indicate that it was a star presaging the dawn (at any rate in English tradition): that is what we now call <I>Venus</I>: the morning star as it may be seen shining brilliantly in the dawn, before the actual rising of the Sun. That is at any rate how I took it. Before 1914 I wrote a ‘poem’ upon Eärendel who launched his ship like a bright spark from the havens of the Sun. I adopted him into my mythology - in which he became a prime figure as a mariner, and eventually as a herald star, and a sign of hope to men. <I>Aiya Eärendil Elenion Ancalima</I> ([The Lord of the Rings] II.329) ‘hail Eärendil brightest of Stars' is derived at long remove from <I>Éalá Éarendel engla beorhtast\*</I> But the name could not be adopted just like that: it had to be accommodated to the Elvish linguistic situation, at the same time as a place for this person was made in legend. From this, far back in the history of ‘Elvish’, which was beginning, after many tentative starts in boyhood, to take definite shape at the time of the name's adoption, arose eventually (a) the C[ommon]E[lvish] stem \*AYAR ‘sea’, primarily applied to the Great Sea of the West, lying between Middle-earth and Aman the Blessed Realm of the Valar; and (b) the element, or verbal base (N)DIL, ‘to love, be devoted to’ - describing the attitude of one to a person, thing, cause, or occupation to which one is devoted for its own sake. Eärendil became a character in the earliest written (1916-17) of the major legends: <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, the greatest of the <I>Pereldar</I> 'Half-elven', son of <I>Tuor</I> of the most renowned House of the Edain, and <I>Idril</I> daughter of the King of Gondolin.

My father did not indeed here say that his <I>Eärendel</I> contained from the beginning elements that in combination give a meaning like ‘Sea-lover’; but it is in any case clear that at the time of the earliest extant writings on

