---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P244.
date: 1984-01-01 04:04
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 244
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
tale, and with this new element went the change in Gwendelin's movements immediately after the disaster. But though the textual history is here extremely hard to interpet, what with erasures and additions on loose pages, I think it is almost certain that this reshaping was done while the original composition of the tale was still in progress.
</p>

14   The first of these lacunae that I have left in the text contains two words, the first possibly ‘believe’ and the second probably ‘best’. In the second lacuna the word might conceivably be ‘pallor’.

15   This sentence, from ‘and is it not that very water . . .’, is struck through and bracketed, and in the margin my father scribbled: ‘No [?that] is Narog.’

16   The illegible word might be ‘brays': the word ‘clearer’ is an emendation from ‘hoarser’.

17   ‘and told Beren’: i.e., ‘and Beren told’. The text as first written had ‘Then told Beren

18   The illegible word might just possibly be ‘treasury’, but I do not think that it is.

19   <I>Dior</I> replaced the name <I>Ausir</I>, which however occurs below as another name for Dior.

20   ‘Dior the Elf is an emendation from ‘Dior then an aged Elf.

21     The latter part of this name is quite unclear: it might be read as <I>Maithog</I>, or as <I>Mailweg</I>. See <I>Changes made to Names</I> under <I>Dinithel</I>.

<I>Ilfiniol</I> (p. 221) here so written from the first: see p. 201.

<I>Gwenniel</I> is used throughout the revised section of the tale except at the last occurrence (p. 228), where the form is <I>Gwendelin</I>; in the pencilled part of the tale at the first occurrence of the queen's name it is again <I>Gwenniel</I> (p. 230), but thereafter always <I>Gwendelin</I> (see note 10).

<I>Belegost</I>    At the first occurrence (p. 230) the manuscript has <I>Ost Belegost</I>, with <I>Ost</I> circled as if for rejection, and <I>Belegost</I> is the reading subsequently.

