---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P7.
date: 1984-01-01 00:07
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 7
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
blood, and Melko fares abroad. But gallant affrays have I seen wherein brave men did sometimes meet, and swift blows were dealt, and strength of body and of heart was proven — but, behold, why speak we of these things, little one? Wouldst not hear rather of my ventures on the sea?’
</p>

Then was there much eagerness alight, and Eriol told them of his first wanderings about the western havens, of the comrades he made, and the ports he knew; of how he was one time wrecked upon far western islands and there upon a lonely eyot found an ancient mariner who dwelt for ever solitary in a cabin on the shore, that he had fashioned of the timbers of his boat. ‘More wise was he,’ said Eriol, ‘in all matters of the sea than any other I have met, and much of wizardry was there in his lore. Strange things he told me of regions far beyond the Western Sea, of the Magic Isles and that most lonely one that lies behind. Once long ago, he said, he had sighted it glimmering afar off, and after had he sought it many a day in vain. Much lore he taught me of the hidden seas, and the dark and trackless waters, and without this never had I found this sweetest land, or this dear town or the Cottage of Lost Play - yet it was not without long and grievous search thereafter, and many a weary voyage, that I came myself by the blessing of the Gods to Tol Eressëa at the last - wherefore I now sit here talking to thee, Vëannë, till my words have run dry.’

Then nevertheless did a boy, Ausir, beg him to tell more of ships and the sea, saying: ‘Forknowest thou not, O Eriol, that that ancient mariner beside the lonely sea was none other than Ulmo's self, who appeareth not seldom thus to those voyagers whom he loves - yet he who has spoken with Ulmo must have many a tale to tell that will not be stale in the ears even of those that dwell here in Kortirion.’ But Eriol at that time believed not that saying of Ausir's, and said: ‘Nay, pay me your debt ere Ilfrin ring the gong for evening meat — come, one of you shall tell me a tale that you have heard.’

Then did Vëannë sit up and clap her hands, crying: ‘I will tell thee the Tale of Tinúviel.’

<I>The Tale of Tinúviel</I>

I give now the text of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>as it appears in the manuscript. The <I>Link</I>is not in fact distinguished or separated in any way from the tale proper, and Vëannë makes no formal opening to it.

