---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P98.
date: 1984-01-01 01:38
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 98
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
stumbled on heedless whither their steps might go, till on a sudden the sun gleamed thin above them, and hope returned to them; and behold the mists lifted and the airs became clearer and they stood not far from the river. Even now it smoked as it were hot, and behold the Foalókë lay there and his eyes were upon them.
</p>

No word did he speak nor did he move, but his baleful eye held their gaze until the strength seemed to leave their knees and their minds grew dim. Then did Nienóri drag herself by a might of will from that influence for a while, and “Behold,” she cried, ”O serpent of Melko, what wilt thou with us - be swift to say or do, for know that we seek not thee nor thy gold but one Túrin who dwelt here upon a time.” Then said the drake, and the earth quaked at him: “Thou liest — glad had ye been at my death, and glad thy band of cravens who now flee gibbering in the woods might they have despoiled me. Fools and liars, liars and cravens, how shall ye slay or despoil Glorund the Foalókë, who ere his power had waxen slew the hosts of the Rodothlim and Orodreth their lord, devouring all his folk.”

“Yet perchance,” said Nienóri, “one Túrin got him from that fray and dwells still here beneath thy bonds, an he has not escaped thee and is now far hence,” and this she said at a venture, hoping against hope, but said the evil one: ”Lo! the names of all who dwelt here before the taking of the caves of my wisdom I know, and I say to thee that none who named himself Túrin went hence alive.” And even so was Túrin's boast subtly turned against him, for these beasts love ever to speak thus, doubly playing with cunning words.<SUP>22</SUP>

“Then was Túrin slain in this evil place,” said Mavwin, but the dragon answered: “Here did the name of Túrin fade for ever from the earth - but weep not, woman, for it was the name of a craven that betrayed his friends.” “Foul beast, cease thy evil sayings,” said Mavwin; “slayer of my son, revile not the dead, lest thine own bane come upon thee.” “Less proud must be thy words, O Mavwin, an thou wilt escape torment or thy daughter with thee,” did that drake answer, but Mavwin cried: ”O most accursed, lo! I fear thee not. Take me an thou wilt to thy torments and thy bondage, for of a truth I desired thy death, but suffer only Nienóri my daughter to go back to the dwellings of Men: for she came hither constrained by me, and knowing not the purposes of our journey.”

“Seek not to cajole me, woman,” sneered that evil one. “Liever

