---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P116.
date: 1984-01-01 01:56
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 116
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
bath of flame, even as Urwendi and her maidens had done in ages past before the first rising of the Sun, and so were all their sorrows and stains washed away, and they dwelt as shining Valar among the blessed ones, and now the love of that brother and sister is very fair; but Turambar indeed shall stand beside Fionwë in the Great Wrack, and Melko and his drakes shall curse the sword of Mormakil.’
</p>

And so saying Eltas made an end, and none asked further.

NOTES

1The passage was rejected before the change of <I>Tintoglin</I> to <I>Tinwelint;</I> see p. 69.

2 Above the name <I>Egnor</I> is written ‘Damrod the Gnome’; see Commentary, pp. 139-40.

3 Here and immediately below the name as first written was <I>Tinthellon</I>; this rider must belong to the same time as the note on the MS directing that <I>Tintoglin</I> be changed to <I>Ellon</I> or <I>Tinthellon</I> (p. 69). See note 32.

4 Associated with this replacement is a note on the manuscript reading: ‘If Beren be a Gnome (as now in the story of Tinúviel) the references to Beren must be altered.’ In the rejected passage Egnor father of Beren ‘was akin to Mavwin’, i.e. Egnor was a Man. See notes 5 and 6, and the Commentary, p. 139.

5 ‘Túrin son of Úrin’: original reading ‘Beren Ermabwed’. Seenotes4 and 6.

6 Original reading ‘and when also the king heard of the kinship

between Mavwin and Beren’. See notes 4 and 5.<BR><I>1 Linwë (Tinto</I>) was the king's original ‘Elvish’ name, and belongs to

the same ‘layer’ of names as <I>Tintoglin</I> (see I.115, 131). Its retention

here (not changed to <I>Tinwë</I>) is clearly a simple oversight. See notes

19 and 20.

8 Original reading ‘seeing that he was a Man of great size’.

9 With this passage cf. that in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> p. 11, which is closely similar. That the passage in <I>Turambar</I> is the earlier (to be presumed in any case) is shown by the fact that that in <I>Tinúviel</I> is only relevant if Beren is a Gnome, not a Man (see note 4).

10 ‘dreams came to them’: original reading ‘dreams the Valar sent to them’.

11 ‘and his name was Glorund’ was added later, as were the subsequent occurrences of the name on pp. 86, 94, 98; but from the first on p. 103 onwards <I>Glorund</I> appears in the manuscript as first written.

12 ‘with the aid of Flinding whose wounds were not great’: original reading ‘with the aid of a lightly wounded man’. All the subsequent references to Flinding in this passage were added.

