---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P276.
date: 1984-01-01 04:36
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 276
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Ye follow Eärendel without rest,
</p>

the shining mariner, beyond the West,

who passed the mouth of night and launched his bark

upon the outer seas of everlasting dark. 40

Here only comes at whiles a wind to blow

returning darkly down the way ye go,

with perfume laden of unearthly trees.

Here only long afar through window-pane

I glimpse the flicker of the golden rain 45

that falls for ever on the outer seas.

I cannot explain the reference (in the revised version only, line 24) to the journey of the mariners ‘beyond the grey islands and past Gondobar’. <I>Gondobar</I> (‘City of Stone’) was one of the seven names of Gondolin (P. 158).

NOTES

1 Falasquil was the name of Tuor's dwelling on the coast (p. 152); the Oarni, with the Falmaríni and the Wingildi, are called ‘the spirits of the foam and the surf of ocean’ (I.66).

2 <I>Irildë:</I> the ‘Elvish’ name corresponding to Gnomish <I>Idril</I>. See the Appendix on Names, entry <I>Idril</I>.

3 ‘Elwing of the <I>Gnomes</I> of Artanor’ is perhaps a mere slip.

4 For the Swan-wing as the emblem of Tuor see pp. 152, 164, 172,

193.

5 The words ‘Idril has vanished’ replace an earlier reading: ‘Sirion has been sacked and only Littleheart (Ilfrith) remained who tells the tale.’ <I>Ilfrith</I> is yet another version of Littleheart's Elvish name (see pp. 201-2).

6 Struck out here: ‘The Sleeper is Idril but he does not know.’

7 Cf. <I>Kortirion among the Trees</I> (I.36, lines 129-30): ‘I need not know the desert or red palaces Where dwells the sun’; lines retained slightly changed in the second (1937) version (I.39).

8 This passage, from ‘Eärendel distraught...’, replaced the following: <I>‘[illegible name, possibly</I> Orion] is [?biding] there and tells him of the sack of Sirion and the captivity of Elwing. The faring of the Koreldar and the binding of Melko.’ Perhaps the words ‘The faring of the Koreldar’ were struck out by mistake (cf. Outline B).

9 <I>Earum</I> is emended (at the first occurrence only) from <I>Earam</I>; and following it stood the name <I>Earnhama</I>, but this was struck out. <I>Earnhama</I> is Old English, ‘Eagle-coat’, ‘Eagle-dress’.

