---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P58.
date: 1984-01-01 00:58
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 58
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Carcharoth she ‘cast back her foul raiment’ and ‘commanded him to sleep’, here she used once more the magical misty robe spun of her hair: ‘the black strands of her dark veil she cast in his eyes' (p. 31). The indifference of Karkaras to the false Oikeroi contrasts with Carcharoth's suspicion of the false Druagluin, of whose death he had heard tidings: in the old story it is emphasised that no news of the discomfiture of Tevildo (and the death of Oikeroi) had yet reached Angamandi.
</p>

The encounter of Tinúviel with Melko is given with far more detail than in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (here much compressed from its source); notable is the phrase (p. 32) ‘he leered horribly, for his dark mind pondered some evil’, forerunner of that in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 180):

Then Morgoth looking upon her beauty conceived in his thought an evil lust, and a design more dark than any that had yet come into his heart since he fled from Valinor.

We are never told anything more explicit.

Whether Melko's words to Tinúviel, ‘Who art thou that flittest about my halls like a bat?’, and the description of her dancing ‘noiseless as a bat’, were the germ of her later bat-disguise cannot be said, though it seems possible.

The knife with which Beren cut the Silmaril from the Iron Crown has a quite different provenance in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>, being a kitchen-knife that Beren took from Tevildo's castle (pp. 29, 33); in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it was Angrist, the famous knife made by Telchar which Beren took from Curufin. The sleepers of Angamandi are here disturbed by the sound of the snapping of the knife-blade; in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it is the shard flying from the snapped knife and striking Morgoth's cheek that makes him groan and stir.

There is a minor difference in the accounts of the meeting with the wolf as Beren and Tinúviel fled out. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> ‘Lúthien was spent, and she had not time nor strength to quell the wolf; in the tale it seems that she might have done so if Beren had not been precipitate. Much more important, there appears here for the first time the conception of the holy power of the Silmarils that burns unhallowed flesh.\*

The escape of Tinúviel and Beren from Angamandi and their return to Artanor (pp. 34-6) is treated quite differently in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (pp. 182-3) they were rescued by the Eagles and set down on the borders of Doriath; and far more is made of the healing of Beren's wound, in which Huan plays a part. In the old story Huan comes to them later, after their long southward flight on foot. In both accounts there is a discussion between them as to whether or not they should return to her father's hall, but it is quite differently conducted - in the tale it is she who persuades Beren to return, in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it is Beren who persuades her.

\* In an early note there is a reference to ‘the sacred Silmarils': 1.169, note 2.

