---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P118.
date: 1984-01-01 01:58
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 118
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
26 ‘and the captain of these was Mîm the dwarf added afterwards in pencil. See Commentary p. 137.
</p>

27 The word <I>tract</I> may be read as <I>track</I>, and the word <I>hurt</I> (but with less probability) as <I>burnt</I>.

28 As it stands this sentence can hardly mean other than that the people thought that the men were fighting among themselves; but why should they think such a thing? More likely, my father inadvertently missed out the end of the sentence: ‘betwixt the seven, Turambar and his comrades, and the dragon.’

29 Turambar refers to Glorund's words to him before the caves of the Rodothlim: 'O Túrin Mormakil, who wast once named brave’ (p. 86).

30 These words, from ‘even he who . . .’, were added later in pencil. <I>Úrin</I> may also be read as <I>Húrin</I>.

31 From this point to the end of Eltas’ tale the original text was struck through, and is followed in the manuscript book by two brief narrative outlines, these being rejected also. The text given here (from ‘Yet it is said ...’) is found on slips placed in the book. For the rejected material see the Commentary, pp. 135-7.

32 Throughout the final portion of the text (that written on slips, see note 31) the king's name was first written <I>Tinthellon</I>, not <I>Tintoglin</I> (see note 3).

33 ‘Elves': original reading ‘men’. The same change was made below (‘Now therefore when those Elves approached’), and a little later ‘men’ was removed in two places (‘his folk laughed’, ‘Úrin caused his followers to bear the gold’, p. 114); but several occurrences of ‘men’ were retained, possibly through oversight, though ‘men’ is used of Elves very frequently in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> (e.g. ‘Beleg and Flinding both stout men’, p. 80).

34 This sentence, from ‘But none had come nigh . . .’, was added later in pencil.

35 This sentence, from ‘Then did Úrin fiercely . . .’, was added later, replacing ‘Then said Úrin: “Yet had you such a heart . . .”’

36 This sentence, from “What meanest thou . . .”, replaces the original reading “Begone, and take thy filth with thee.”

Changes made to names in<BR><I>The Tale of Turambar</I>

<I>Fuithlug< Fothlug</I> < <I>Fothlog</I>

<I>Nienóri</I> At the first occurrence (p. 71) my father originally wrote <I>Nyenôre (Nienor</I>). Afterwards he struck out <I>Nyenôre</I>, removed the brackets round <I>Nienor</I>, and added -i, giving <I>Nienóri</I>. At subsequent occurrences the name was written both <I>Nienor</I> and

