---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P202.
date: 1984-01-01 03:22
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 202
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<B>2O2 BOOKOFLOST TALES - VOLUMEII</B>
</p>

entry 'Elf meaneth “heart” (as Elfin <I>Elben): Elfrith</I> is Littleheart’ (see I.255, entry <I>Ilverin</I>). In another projected list of names, abandoned after only a couple of entries had been made, we meet again the form <I>Elfrith</I>, and <I>also Elbenil > Elwenil</I>.

This constant changing of name is to be understood in relation to swiftly changing phonological ideas and formulations, but even so is rather extraordinary.)

<I>In the following notes it is to be understood, for brevity's sake, that names in</I> Tuor B (<I>before emendation) are found in the same form in</I> Tuor A; <I>e.g</I>. ‘Mithrim < Asgon <I>in</I> Tuor B' <I>implies that</I> Tuor <I>A has</I> Asgon (<I>unchanged</I>).

<I>Tuor</I>Although sometimes emended to <I>Tûr</I> in <I>Tuor B</I>, and invariably

written <I>Tûr</I> in the typescript <I>Tuor C</I>, I give <I>Tuor</I> throughout; see

p. 148.<BR><I>Dor Lómin</I> This name was so written from the first in <I>Tuor B. Tuor A</I>

has, at the first three occurrences, <I>Aryador > Mathusdor;</I> at the

fourth, <I>Aryador > Mathusdor</I> > <I>Dor Lómin</I>.

<I>Mithrim < Asgon</I> throughout <I>Tuor B; Tuor C</I> has Asgon unchanged.<BR><I>Glorfalc or Cris Ilbranteloth</I>(p. 150) <I>Tuor A</I> has <I>Glorfalc or Teld</I>

<I>Quing Ilon; Tuor B</I> as written had no Elvish names, <I>Glorfalc or</I>

<I>Cris Ilbranteloth</I> being a later addition.<BR><I>Ainur</I>As in the first draft of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> (I.61)the

original text of <I>Tuor A</I> had <I>Ainu</I> plural.<BR><I>Falasquil</I>At both occurrences (p.152) in <I>Tuor A</I> this replaces the

original name now illegible but beginning with <I>Q;</I> in <I>Tuor B</I> my

mother left blanks and added the name later in pencil; in <I>Tuor C</I>

blanks are left in the typescript and not filled in.<BR><I>Arlisgion</I> This name was added later to <I>Tuor B.<BR>Orcs Tuor A</I> and <I>B</I> had <I>Orqui</I> throughout; my father emended this in

<I>Tuor B</I> to <I>Orcs</I>, but not consistently, and in the later part of the

tale not at all. In one place only (p. 193, in Thorndor's speech).

both texts have Orcs (also <I>Orc-bands</I> p. 195). As with the name

<I>Tuor/Tûr</I> I give throughout the form that was to prevail.

At the only occurrence of the singular the word is written with a<I> k</I>

in both <I>Tuor A and B</I> (‘Ork's blood’, p. 165).<BR><I>Gar Thurion < Gar Furion</I> in <I>Tuor B (Gar Furion</I> in <I>Tuor C).<BR>Loth< Lôs</I> in <I>Tuor B (Lôs</I> in <I>Tuor C).<BR>Lothengriol< Lósengriol</I> in <I>Tuor B (Lósengriol</I> in <I>Tuor C).<BR>Taniquetil</I> At the occurrence on p. 161 there was added in the original

text of <I>Tuor A: (Danigwiel</I>), but this was struck out.<BR><I>Kôr</I>Against this name (p. 161) is pencilled in <I>Tuor B: Tûn</I>. See I.222,

II.292.<BR><I>Gar Ainion < Gar Ainon</I> in <I>Tuor B (p</I>.164; at the occurrence on

p. 186 not emended, but I read <I>Gar Ainion</I> in both places).<BR><I>Nost-na-Lothion < Nost-na-Lossion</I> in <I>Tuor B</I>.

