---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P331.
date: 1984-01-01 05:31
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 331
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
seeking for the islands of the West of which Éadgifu had told him<BR>in his childhood.
</p>

30 <I>Ælfwine I</I> has here: ‘But three men could he find as his companions; and Ossë took them unto him.’ <I>Ossë</I> was emended to <I>Neorth</I>; and then the sentence was struck through and rewritten: ‘Such found he only three; and those three Neorth after took unto him and their names are not known.’ Neorth = Ulmo; see note 39.

31 <I>Ælfwine A</I> reads: ‘He espies some islands lying in the dawn but is swept thence by great winds. He returns hardly to Belerion. He gathers the seven greatest mariners of England; they sail in spring. They are wrecked upon the isles of Ælfwine's desire and find them desert and lonely and filled with gloomy whispering trees.’ This is at variance with <I>Ælfwine I</I> and <I>II</I> where Ælfwine is cast on to the island alone; but agrees with <I>II</I> in giving Ælfwine seven companions, not three.

32 A clue that this was Ulmo: cf. <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (p. 155): ‘he was shod with mighty shoes of stone.’

33 In <I>Ælfwine A</I> they were ‘filled with gloomy whispering trees' (note 31).

34 From the point where the Man of the Sea said: ‘Lo, this is one of the ring of Harbourless Isles . . .‘(p. 317) to here (i.e. the whole episode of the foundered Viking ship and its captain Orm, slayer of Ælfwine's father) there is nothing corresponding in <I>Ælfwine I</I>, which has only: ‘but that Man of the Sea aided him in building a little craft, and together, guided by the solitary mariner, they fared away and came to a land but little known.’ For the narrative in <I>Ælfwine A</I> see note 39.

35 At one occurrence of the name <I>Ythlings</I> (Old English <I>ýð</I> ‘wave’) in Ælfwine I it is written <I>Ythlingas</I>, with the Old English plural ending.

38 The whole section of the narrative concerning the island of the Ythlings is more briefly told in <I>Ælfwine I</I> (though, so far as it goes, in very much the same words) with several features of the later story absent (notably the cutting of timber in the grove sacred to Ulmo, and the blessing of the ship by the Man of the Sea). The only actual difference of structure, however, is that whereas in <I>Ælfwine II</I> Ælfwine finds again his seven companions in the land of the Ythlings, and sails west with them, together with -Bior of the Ythlings, in <I>Ælfwine I</I> they were indeed drowned, and he got seven companions from among the Ythlings (among whom Bior is not named).

