---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P115.
date: 1984-01-01 01:55
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 115
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
thou what death did Nienóri my daughter die?” And Tinwelint said that he knew not.
</p>

Then did Úrin fiercely tell that tale, and the king and all his folk about him hid their faces for great ruth, but Úrin said: “Nay,<SUP>35</SUP> had you such a heart as have the least of Men, never would they have been lost; but lo, I bring you now a payment in full for the troubles of your puny band that went against Glorund the drake, and deserting gave up my dear ones to his power. Gaze, O Tinwelint, sweetly on my gifts, for methinks the lustre of gold is all your heart contains.”

Then did men cast down that treasury at the king's feet, uncovering it so that all that court were dazzled and amazed - but Úrin's men understood now what was forward and were little pleased. “Behold the hoard of Glorund,” said Úrin, “bought by the death of Nienóri with the blood of Túrin slayer of the worm. Take it, O craven king, and be glad that some Men be brave to win thee riches.”

Then were Úrin's words more than Tinwelint could endure, and he said: “What meanest thou, child of Men, and wherefore upbraidest thou me?<SUP>36</SUP> Long did I foster thy son and forgave him the evil of his deeds, and afterward thy wife I succoured, giving way against my counsel to her wild desires. Melko it is that hates thee and not I. Yet what is it to me — and wherefore dost thou of the uncouth race of Men endure to upbraid a king of the Eldalië? Lo! in Palisor my life began years uncounted before the first of Men awoke. Get thee gone, O Úrin, for Melko hath bewitched thee, and take thy riches with thee” — but he forebore to slay or to bind Úrin in spells, remembering his ancient valiance in the Eldar's cause.

Then Úrin departed, but would not touch the gold, and stricken in years he reached Hisilómë and died among Men, but his words living after him bred estrangement between Elves and Men. Yet it is said that when he was dead his shade fared into the woods seeking Mavwin, and long those twain haunted the woods about the fall of Silver Bowl bewailing their children. But the Elves of Kôr have told, and they know, that at last Úrin and Mavwin fared to Mandos, and Nienóri was not there nor Turin their son. Turambar indeed had followed Nienóri along the black pathways to the doors of Fui, but Fui would not open to them, neither would Vefántur. Yet now the prayers of Úrin and Mavwin came even to Manwë, and the Gods had mercy on their unhappy fate, so that those twain Túrin and Nienóri entered into Fôs'Almir, the

