---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P307.
date: 1984-01-01 05:07
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 307
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Luthany; and the idea of Ossë's enmity towards Eärendel (pp. 254, 263) is retained but brought into association with the origin of the Ingwaiwar.
</p>

It is clear that the narrative structure is:

-   Ing(wë) King of Luthany.

-   Eärendel seeks refuge with him (after [many of] the Elves have<BR>departed to Tol Eressëa).

-   Ing(wë) seeks Tol Eressëa but is driven into the East.

-   Seven invasions of Luthany.

-   The people of Ing(wë) are the Ingwaiwar, and they ‘come back to<BR>their own’ when they invade Luthany from across the North Sea.

<B>(25)   </B>Luthany was where the tribes first embarked in the Lonely Isle for Valinor, and whence they landed for the Faring Forth,\* whence [also] many sailed with Elwing to find Tol Eressëa.

That Luthany was where the Elves, at the end of the great journey from Palisor, embarked on the Lonely Isle for the Ferrying to Valinor, is probably to be connected with the statement in (20) that ‘Ingwë and Eärendel dwelt in Luthany before it was an isle’.

<B>(26) </B>There are other references to the channel separating Luthany from the Great Lands: in rough jottings in notebook C there is mention of an isthmus being cut by the Elves, ‘fearing Men now that Ingwë has gone’, and ‘to the white cliffs where the silver spades of the Teleri worked’; also in the next citation.

<B>(27)   </B>The Elves tell Ælfwine of the ancient manner of Luthany, of Kortirion or Gwarthyryn (Caer Gwâr),<SUP>17</SUP> of Tavrobel.

How the fairies dwelt there a hundred ages before Men had the skill to build boats to cross the channel - so that magic lingers yet mightily in its woods and hills.

How they renamed many a place in Tol Eressëa after their home in Luthany. Of the Second Faring Forth and the fairies' hope to reign in Luthany and replant there the magic trees - and it depends most on the temper of the Men of Luthany (since they first must come there) whether all goes well.

Notable here is the reference to ‘the Second Faring Forth’, which strongly supports my interpretation of the expression ‘Faring Forth’ in (18), (20), and (25); but the prophecy or hope of the Elves concerning

