---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P347.
date: 1984-01-01 05:47
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 347
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Rog GL gives an adjective <I>rôg, rog</I> ‘doughty, strong’. But with the Orcs' name for Egnor Beren's father, Rog the Fleet, cf. <I>arog</I> ‘swift, rushing’, and <I>raug</I> of the same meaning; Qenya <I>arauka</I>.
</p>

Rôs GL gives yet another meaning of this name: ‘the Sea’ (Qenya <I>Rása</I>).

<B>Rodothlim </B><I>SeeRothwarin</I> (earlier form replaced <I>by Rodothlim</I>).

<B>Rothwarin </B>GL has this name in the forms <I>Rothbarin, Rosbarin:</I> ‘(literally “cavern-dwellers”) name of a folk of secret Gnomes and also of the regions about their cavernous homes on the banks of the river.’ Gnomish words derived from the root ROTO ‘hollow’ are <I>rod</I> ‘tube, stem’, <I>ross</I> ‘pipe’, <I>roth</I> ‘cave, grot’, <I>rothrin</I> ‘hollow’, <I>rodos</I> ‘cavern’; QL gives <I>rotsë</I> ‘pipe’, <I>rota</I> ‘tube’, <I>ronta, rotwa</I> ‘hollow’, <I>rotelë</I> ‘cave’.

<B>Rúmhoth </B><I>SeeGlamhoth</I>.

<B>Rúsitaurion </B>GL gives a noun <I>rûs (rôs</I>) ‘endurance, longsuffering, patience’, together with adjective <I>ro</I> ‘enduring, longsuffering; quiet, gentle’, and verb <I>ro-</I> ‘remain, stay; endure’. For <I>taurion</I> see I.267 <I>(Tavari</I>).

<B>Sarnathrod </B>Gnomish <I>sarn</I> ‘a stone’; for <I>athrod</I> ‘ford’ see Artanor.

<B>Sarqindi </B>(‘Cannibal-ogres'). This must derive from the root SRKR given in QL, with derivatives <I>sarko</I> ‘flesh’, <I>sarqa</I> ‘fleshy’, <I>sarkuva</I> ‘corporeal, bodily’.

<B>Silpion </B>An entry in NFG (p. 215) translates the name as ‘Cherry-moon’. In QL is a word <I>pio</I> ‘plum, cherry’ (with <I>piukka</I> ‘blackberry’, <I>piosenna</I> ‘holly’, etc.), and also <I>Valpio</I> ‘the holy cherry of Valinor’. GL gives <I>Piosil</I> and <I>Silpios</I>, without translation, as names of the Silver Tree, and also a <I>word piog</I> ‘berry’.

<B>Taimonto </B>See I.268 <I>(Telimektar</I>).

<B>Talceleb, taltelepta </B>(Name of <I>Idril/Irildë</I>, ‘of the Silver Feet’.) The first element is Gnomish <I>tol</I> ‘foot (of people and animals)’; related words are <I>taltha</I> ‘foot (of things), base, pedestal, pediment’, <I>talrind, taldrin</I> ‘ankle’, <I>taleg, taloth</I> ‘path’ - another name for the Way of Escape into Gondolin was <I>Taleg Uthwen</I> (see <I>Bad Uthwen</I>). QL under root TALA ‘support’ gives <I>tola</I> ‘foot’, <I>talwi</I> (dual) ‘the feet’, <I>talas</I> ‘sole’, etc. For the second element see I.268 <I>(Telimpë</I>). QL gives the form <I>telepta</I> but without translation.

<B>Tarnin Austa </B>For <I>tarn</I> ‘gate’ see I.261 <I>(Moritamon</I>). GL gives a<I>ust</I> ‘summer’; <I>cf.Aur</I> ‘the Sun’, I.271 <I>(Úr</I>).

<B>Taruithorn, Taruktarna </B>(Oxford). GL gives <I>târ</I> ‘horn’ and <I>tarog</I> 'ox' (Qenya <I>taruku-), Taruithron</I> older <I>Taruitharn</I> ‘Oxford’. Immediately following these words are <I>tarn</I> ‘gate’ and <I>taru</I> ‘(i) cross (2) crossing’. QL has <I>taru</I> ‘horn’ (see <I>Dramborleg), tarukka</I> ‘horned’, <I>tarukko, tarunko</I> ‘bull’, <I>Taruktarna</I> ‘Oxford’, and under root TARA <I>tara-</I> ‘cross, go athwart’, <I>tarna</I> ‘crossing, passage’.

