---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P199.
date: 1984-01-01 03:19
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 199
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the hosts of Melko: ‘But now the men of Melko have assembled their forces' (p. 183).
</p>

21     The passage ending here and beginning with the words ‘Then Tuor's heart was heavy . . .’ on p. 162 was bracketed by my father in <I>Tuor B</I>, and on a loose slip referring to this bracketed passage he wrote:

(If nec[essary]): Then is told how Idril daughter of the king added her words to the king's wisdom so that Turgon bid Tuor rest himself awhile in Gondolin, and being forewise prevailed on him [to] abide there in the end. How he came to love the daughter of the king, Idril of the Silver Feet, and how he was taught deeply in the lore of that great folk and learned of its history and the history of the Elves. How Tuor grew in wisdom and mighty in the counsels of the Gondothlim.

The only narrative difference here from the actual text lies in the introduction of the king's daughter Idril as an influence on Tuor's decision to remain in Gondolin. The passage is otherwise an extremely abbreviated summary of the account of Tuor's instruction in Gondolin, with omission of what is said in the text about the preparations of the Gondothlim against attack; but I do not think that this was a proposal for shortening the written tale. Rather, the words ‘If necessary’ suggest strongly that my father had in mind only a reduction for oral delivery - and that was when it was read to the Exeter College Essay Club in the spring of 1920; see p. 147. Another proposed shortening is given in note 32.

22   This passage, beginning ‘Great love too had Idril for Tuor . . .’, was written on a separate slip and replaced the original text as follows:

The king hearing of this, and .finding that his child Idril, whom the Eldar speak of as Irildë, loved Tuor in return, he consented to their being wed, seeing that he had no son, and Tuor was like to make a kinsman of strength and consolation. There were Idril and Tuor wed before the folk in that Place of the Gods, Gar Ainion, nigh the king's palace; and that was a day of mirth to the city of Gondolin, but of (&c.)

The replacement states that the marriage of Tuor and Idril was the first but not the last of the unions of Man and Elf, whereas it is said in the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> that Eärendel was ‘the only being that is half of the kindred of the Eldalië and half of Men’ (see p. 215).

23   The phrase ‘and that tale of Isfin and Eöl may not here be told’ was added to <I>Tuor B</I>. See p. 220.

24   Original reading: ‘a name wrought of the tongue of the Gondothlim’.

25   The sapphires given to Manwë by the Noldoli are referred to in the

