---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P128.
date: 1984-01-01 02:08
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 128
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of the lands; but whereas in the later story the reason for this was the prowess of the Black Sword of Nargothrond, in the tale it was the ‘great and terrible project’ of Melko that was afoot - the assault on the caves of the Rodothlim (see note 18).
</p>

It is curious that in this passage Airin and Brodda are introduced as if for the first time. It is perhaps significant that the part of the tale extending from the dragon's words ‘Hearken to me, O son of Úrin . . .‘on p. 87 to ’. . . fell to his knees before Tinwelint’ on p. 92 was written in a separate part of the manuscript book: possibly this replaced an earlier text in which Brodda and Airin did not appear. But many such questions arise from the earliest manuscripts, and few can now be certainly unravelled.

The next essential step in the development of the plot - the learning by Mavwin/Morwen of Túrin's sojourn in Nargothrond — is more neatly and naturally handled in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 217) and the <I>Narn</I> (p. 112), where news is brought to Thingol by fugitives from the sack, in contrast to the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>, where Mavwin and Nienóri only learn of the destruction of the Elves of the Caves from a band of Noldoli while themselves wandering aimlessly in the forest. It is odd that these Noldoli did not name Túrin by his name but only as the <I>Mormakil:</I> it seems that they did not know who he was, but they knew enough of his history to make his identity plain to Mavwin. As noted above, Túrin declared his name and lineage to the Elves of the Caves. In the later narrative, on the other hand, Túrin did conceal it in Nargothrond, calling himself Agarwaen, but all those who brought news of the fall to Doriath ‘declared that it was known to many in Nargothrond ere the end that the Mormegil was none other than Túrin son of Húrin of Dor-lómin’.

As often, unneeded complication in the early story was afterwards cleared away: thus the elaborate argumentation needed to get Tinwelint's warriors and Mavwin and Nienóri on the road together is gone from <I>The Silmarillion</I> and the <I>Narn</I>. In the tale the ladies and the Elvish warriors all set off together with the full intention that the former shall watch developments from a high place (afterwards Amon Ethir, the Hill of Spies); in the later story Morwen simply rides off, and the party of Elves, led by Mablung, follows after her, with Nienor among them in disguise.

Particularly notable is the passage in the tale in which Mavwin holds out the great gold-hoard of the Rodothlim as a bait to Tinwelint, and Tinwelint unashamedly admits that (as a wild Elf of the woods) it is this, not any hope of aiding Túrin, that moves him to send out a party. The majesty, power, and pride of Thingol rose with the development of the conception of the Grey-elves of Beleriand; as I have said earlier (p. 63) ‘In the beginning, Tinwelint's dwelling was not a subterranean city full

