---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P220.
date: 1984-01-01 03:40
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 220
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
fought beside Tulkas at the Pools of Twilight against Melko himself, though his name was struck out (p. 195 and note 38); this was after the Battle of Tasarinan. On these battles see pp. 278ff.
</p>

(v) <I>The stature of Elves and Men</I>

The passage concerning Tuor's stature on p. 159, before it was rewritten (see note 18), can only mean that while Tuor was not himself unusually tall for a Man he was nonetheless taller than the Elves of Gondolin, and thus agrees with statements made in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> (see p. 142). As emended, however, the meaning is rather that Men and Elves were not greatly distinct in stature.

(vi)<I>Isfin and Eöl</I>

The earliest version of this tale is found in the little <I>Last Tales</I> notebook (see I. 171), as follows:

Isfin and Eöl

Isfin daughter of Fingolma loved from afar by Eöl (Arval) of the Mole-kin of the Gnomes. He is strong and in favour with Fingolma and with the Sons of Fëanor (to whom he is akin) because he is a leader of the Miners and searches after hidden jewels, but he is illfavoured and Isfin loathes him.

(Fingolma as a name for Finwë Nólemë appears in outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I>, I.238-9.) We have here an illfavoured miner named Eöl ‘of the Mole’ who loves Isfin but is rejected by her with loathing; and this is obviously closely parallel to the illfavoured miner Meglin with the sign of the sable mole seeking the hand of Idril, who rejects him, in <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>. It is difficult to know how to interpret this. The simplest explanation is that the story adumbrated in the little notebook is actually earlier than that in <I>The Fall of Gondolin;</I> that Meglin did not yet exist; and that subsequently the image of the ‘ugly miner - unsuccessful suitor’ became that of the son, the object of desire becoming Idril (niece of Isfin), while a new story was developed for the father, Eöl the dark Elf of the forest who ensnared Isfin. But it is by no means clear where Eöl the miner was when he ‘loved from afar’ Isfin daughter of Fingolma. There seems to be no reason tothink that he was associated with Gondolin; more probably the idea of the miner bearing the sign of the Mole entered Gondolin with Meglin.

