---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P50.
date: 1984-01-01 00:50
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: ["I. THE TALE OF TINÚVIEL"]
page_num: 50
characters: 
tags: ["Name change"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
brother was <I>Tifanto</I> throughout the tale. See notes 13-15, and the Commentary, <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p59">p. 59</a>.
</p>

[13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p39) <I>Mablung</I> replaced <I>Tifanto</I>, and again immediately below; see note 12.

[14]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p39) ‘O King’ replaced ‘O father’; see note 12.

[15]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p41) In this place <I>Mablung</I> was the form as first written; see the Commentary, [p. 59]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p59).

[16]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p42) It is essential to the narrative of the Coming of the Elves that the Solosimpi were the third and last of the three tribes; ‘second’ here can only be a slip, if a surprising one.

<BR>
Changes made to names in <I>The Tale of Tinúviel</I>

(i) Manuscript Version

<I>Ilfiniol < Elfriniol</I>. In the typescript text the name is <I>Ilfrin</I>. See [pp. 201-2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p201).

<I>Tinwë Unto, Tinwelint</I> In the opening passage of the tale ([p. 8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p8)), where Ausir and Vëannë differ on the forms of Tinwelint's name, the MS is very confused and it is impossible to understand the succeeding stages. Throughout the tale, as originally written, Vëannë calls Tinwelint <I>Tinto Ellu</I> or <I>Ellu</I>, but in the argument at the beginning it is Ausir who calls him <I>Tinto Ellu</I> while Vëannë calls him <I>Tinto'ellon. (Tinto) Ellu is</I> certainly an ‘Elvish’ form, but it is corrected throughout the tale to the Gnomish <I>Tinwelint</I>, while Ausir's <I>Tinto Ellu</I> at the beginning is corrected to <I>Tinwë Unto</I>. (At the third occurrence of <I>Tinwë</I> in the opening passage the name as originally written was <I>Linwë</I>: see [1.130]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p130).)

In the tales of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> and <I>The Theft of Melko</I> in Part One <I>Ellu</I> is the name of the second lord of the Solosimpi chosen in Tinwelint's place (afterwards Olwë), but at both occur-ences ([1.120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120), [141]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p141)) this is a later addition ([1.130]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p130) note 5, [155]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p150)). Many years later <I>Ellu</I> again became Thingol's name (Sindarin <I>Elu Thingol</I>, Quenya <I>Elwë Singollo</I>, in <I>The Silmarillion</I>).

<I>Gwendeling</I> As the tale was originally written, <I>Wendelin</I> was the name throughout <I>(Wendelin</I> is found in tales given in Part One, emended from <I>Tindriel</I>: [1.106-7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p106), [131]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p131)). It was later changed throughout to the Gnomish form <I>Gwendeling</I> (found in the early Gnomish dictionary, [1.273]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p273), itself changed later to <I>Gwedhiling</I>) except in the mouth of Ausir, who uses the ‘Elvish’ form <I>Wendelin</I> ([P. 8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p8)).

<I>Dairon < Tifanto</I> throughout. For the change of <I>Tifanto > Mablung</I> at the end of the tale (notes 12-14 above) see the Commentary, [p. 59]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p59), and for the name <I>Kapalen</I> preceding <I>Tifanto</I> see note 9.

<I>Dor Lómin < Aryador</I> ([p. 11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol02-p11)). In the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I>, 

