---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P122.
date: 1984-01-01 02:02
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 122
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
which Orgof/Saeros offered tauntingly to Túrin, <I>Narn </I>p. 80), while others were changed or neglected (as that it was the anniversary of Túrin's departure from his home - though the figure of twelve years agrees with the later story, and that the king was present in the hall, contrast <I>Narn </I>p. 79). But the taunt that roused Túrin to murderous rage remained essentially the same, in that it touched on his mother; and the story was never changed that Túrin came into the hall tousled and roughly clad, and that he was mocked for this by his enemy.
</p>

Orgof is not greatly distinct from Saeros, if less developed. He was in the king's favour, proud, and jealous of Túrin; in the later story he was a Nandorin Elf while here he is an Ilkorin with some Gnomish blood (for Gnomes in Artanor see p. 65), but doubtless some peculiarity in his origin was part of the ‘tradition’. In the old story he is explicitly a fop and a fool, and he is not given the motives of hatred for Túrin that are ascribed to him in the <I>Narn </I>(p. 77).

Though far simpler in narrative, the essential element of Túrin's ignorance of his pardon was present from the outset. The tale provides an explanation, not found later, of why Túrin did not, on leaving Artanor, return to Hithlum; cf. <I>the Narn p. </I>87: ‘to Dor-lómin he did not dare, for it was closely beset, and one man alone could not hope at that time, as he thought, to come through the passes of the Mountains of Shadow.’

Túrin's prowess against the Orcs during his sojourn in Artanor is given a more central or indeed unique importance in the tale (‘he held the wrath of Melko from them for many years') especially as Beleg, his companion-in-arms in the later versions, is not here mentioned (and in this passage the power of the queen to withstand invasion of the kingdom seems again (see p. 63) less than it afterwards became).

(iii)     <I>Túrin and Beleg </I>(pp. 76-81)

That part of the Túrin saga following on his days in Artanor/Doriath underwent a large development later (‘Túrin among the Outlaws'), and indeed my father never brought this part of the story to finality. In the oldest version there is a much more rapid development of the plot: Beleg joins Túrin's band, and the destruction of the band and capture of Túrin by the Orcs follows (in terms of the narrative) almost immediately. There is no mention of ‘outlaws' but only of ‘wild spirits', no long search for Túrin by Beleg, no capture and maltreatment of Beleg by the band, and no betrayal of the camp by a traitor (the part ultimately taken by Mîm the Dwarf). Beleg indeed (as already noticed) is not said to have been Turin's companion in the earlier time, before the slaying of Orgof, and they only take up together after Túrin's self-imposed exile.

Beleg is called a Noldo (p. 78), and if this single reference is to be given full weight (and there seems no reason not to: it is explicit in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel </I>that there were Noldoli in Artanor, and Orgof had Gnomish

