---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P257.
date: 1984-01-01 04:17
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 257
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
shining from the dust of diamonds in Kôr, an image that was to survive (<I>The Silmarillion</I>p. 248):
</p>

He walked in the deserted ways of Tirion, and the dust upon his raiment and his shoes was a dust of diamonds, and he shone and glistened as he climbed the long white stairs.

But in <I>The Silmarillion</I>Tirion was deserted because it was ‘a time of festival, and wellnigh all the Elvenfolk were gone to Valimar, or were gathered in the halls of Manwë upon Taniquetil’; here on the other hand it seems at least strongly implied, in both B and C, that Kôr was empty because the Elves of Valinor had departed into the Great Lands, as a result of the tidings brought by the birds of Gondolin. In these very early narrative schemes there is no mention of Eärendel's speaking to the Valar, as the ambassador of Elves and Men (<I>The Silmarillion</I>p. 249), and we can only conclude, extraordinary as the conclusion is, that Eärendel's great western voyage, though he attained his goal, was fruitless, that he was not the agent of the aid that did indeed come out of Valinor to the Elves of the Great Lands, and (most curious of all) that Ulmo's designs for Tuor had no issue. In fact, my father actually wrote in the 1930 version of ‘The Silmarillion’:

Thus it was that the many emissaries of the Gnomes in after days came never back to Valinor - save one: and he came too late.

The words ‘and he came too late’ were changed to ‘the mightiest mariner of song’, and this is the phrase that is found in <I>The Silmarillion</I>,p. 102. It is unfortunately never made clear in the earliest writings what was Ulmo's purpose in bidding Eärendel sail to Kôr, for which he had been saved from the ruin of Gondolin. What would he have achieved, had he come to Kôr ‘in time’, more than in the event did take place after the coming of tidings from Gondolin - the March of the Elves into the Great Lands? In a curious note in C, not associated with the present outline, my father asked: ‘How did King Turgon's messengers get to Valinor or gain the Gods' consent?’ and answered: ‘His messengers never got there. Ulmo <I>[sic]</I>but the birds brought tidings to the Elves of the fate of Gondolin (the doves and pigeons of Turgon) and they [?arm and march away].’

The coming of the message was followed by ‘the councils (counsels C) of the Gods and the uproar of the Elves', but in C nothing is said of ‘the sorrow and wrath of the Gods' or ‘the veil dropped between Valmar and Kôr’ referred to in B: where the meaning can surely only be that the March of the Elves from Valinor was undertaken in direct opposition to the will of the Valar, that the Valar were bitterly opposed to the intervention of the Elves of Valinor in the affairs of the Great Lands. There may well be a connection here with Vairë's words (I.19): ‘When the fairies left

