---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P119.
date: 1984-01-01 01:59
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 119
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Nienóri, </I>but <I>Nienor </I>was changed to <I>Nienóri </I>later throughout the earlier part of the tale. Towards the end, and in the text written on slips that concludes it, the form is <I>Nienor. </I>I have given <I>Nienóri </I>throughout.
</p>

<I>Tinwelint     < Tinthellon </I>(p. 72, twice). See p. 69 and note 3. <I>Tinwelint < Tinthellon </I>also in the concluding portion of the text, see note 32.

<I>Tinwelint     < Tintoglin </I>throughout the tale, except as just noted (where <I>Tinwelint </I>< <I>Tinthellon </I>in passages added later); see p. 69.

<I>Gwedheling       < Gwendeling </I>at all occurrences <I>(Gwendeling </I>unchanged at p. 76, but this is obviously an oversight: I read <I>Gwedheling </I>in the text). In the Gnomish dictionary the form <I>Gwendeling </I>was changed to <I>Gwedhiling’, </I>see p. 50.

<I>Flinding bo-Dhuilin < Flinding go-Dhuilin </I>This change, made at the occurrence on p. 78, was not made at p. 82, but this was clearly because the form was missed, and I read <I>bo-Dhuilin </I>in both cases; the same change from go- to <I>bo- </I>in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel, </I>see p. 51. The form <I>Dhuilin </I>is taken by the name when the patronymic is prefixed (cf. <I>Duilin </I>p. 79).

<I>Rodothlim     < Rothwarin </I>at every occurrence.

<I>Gurtholfin     < Gortholfin </I>at the first occurrences, but from p. 90 <I>Gurtholfin </I>was the form first written.

Commentary on<BR><I>The Tale of Turambar</I>

§1.     <I>The primary narrative</I>

In commenting on this long tale it is convenient to break it into short sections. In the course of this commentary I frequently refer to the long (though incomplete) prose narrative, the <I>Narn i Hîn Húrin, </I>given in <I>Unfinished Tales </I>pp. 57ff., often in preference to the briefer account in <I>The Silmarillion, </I>chapter XXI; and in reference to the former I cite <I>‘Narn’ </I>and the page-number in <I>Unfinished Tales.</I>

(i)  <I>The capture of Úrin and Turin's childhood in Hisilómë </I>(pp. 70-2).

At the outset of the tale, it would be interesting to know more of the teller, Eltas. He is a puzzling figure: he seems to be a Man (he says that ‘our people’ called Turambar <I>Turumart </I>‘after the fashion of the Gnomes') living in Hisilómë after the days of Turambar but before the fall of Gondolin, and he ‘trod Olórë Mallë’, the Path of Dreams. Is he then a child, one of ‘the children of the fathers of the fathers of Men’, who ‘found Kôr and remained with the Eldar for ever’ <I>(The Cottage of Lost Play, </I>I.19-20)?

