---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P216.
date: 1984-01-01 03:36
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 216
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
(For Galdor's return to the ruins of Gondolin with Eärendel see p. 258.)
</p>

<I>Glingol</I>‘meaneth “singing-gold” ('tis said), and this name was that which the Gondothlim had for that other of the two unfading trees in the king's square which bore golden bloom. It also was a shoot from the trees of Valinor (see rather where Elfrith has spoken of Bansil), but of Lindeloktë (which is “singing-cluster”) or Laurelin <I>[emended from</I>Lindelaurë] (which is “singing-gold”) which lit all Valinor with golden light for half the 24 hours.’

(For the name <I>Lindeloktë</I>see I.22, 258 (entry <I>Lindelos)</I>.)

<I>Glorfindel</I>‘led the Golden Flower and was the best beloved of the Gondothlim, save it be Ecthelion, but who shall choose. Yet he was hapless and fell slaying a Balrog in the great fight in Cristhorn. His name meaneth Goldtress for his hair was golden, and the name of his house in Noldorissa <I>Los'lóriol’</I>(emended from <I>Los Glóriol)</I>.

<I>Gondolin</I>‘meaneth stone of song (whereby figuratively the Gnomes meant stone that was carven and wrought to great beauty), and this was the name most usual of the Seven Names they gave to their city of secret refuge from Melko in those days before the release.’

<I>Gothmog</I>‘was a son of Melko and the ogress Fluithuin and his name is Strife-and-hatred, and he was Captain of the Balrogs and lord of Melko's hosts ere fair Ecthelion slew him at the taking of Gondolin. The Eldar named him <I>Kosmoko</I>or <I>Kosomok(o)</I>,but 'tis a name that fitteth their tongue no way and has an ill sound even in our own rougher speech, said Elfrith [<I>emended from</I>Elfriniel].’

(In a list of names of the Valar associated with the tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar</I>(I.93) it is said that Melko had a son ‘by Ulbandi’ called <I>Kosomot;</I>the early ‘Qenya’ dictionary gives <I>Kosomoko =</I>Gnomish <I>Gothmog, I</I>.258. In the tale Gothmog is called the ‘marshal’ of the hosts of Melko (p. 184).)

In the later development of the legends Gothmog was the slayer of Fëanor, and in the Battle of Unnumbered Tears it was he who slew Fingon and captured Húrin (<I>The Silmarillion</I>pp. 107, 193, 195). He is not of course called later ‘son of Melkor’; the ‘Children of the Valar’ was a feature of the earlier mythology that my father discarded.

In the Third Age <I>Gothmog</I>was the name of the lieutenant of Minas Morgul (<I>The Return of the King</I>V.6).)

<I>Hendor</I>‘was a house-carle of Idril's and was aged, but bore Eärendel down the secret passage.’

<I>Idril</I>‘was that most fair daughter of the king of Gondolin whom Tuor<BR>loved when she was but a little maid, and who bare him Eärendel.<BR>Her the Elves name <I>Irildë;</I>and we speak of as <I>Idril Tal-Celeb</I>or<BR>Idril of the Silver Feet, but <I>they Irildë Taltelepta.’<BR></I>See the Appendix on Names, entry <I>Idril</I>.

