---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P322.
date: 1984-01-01 05:22
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 322
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and nothing could they see and nought more hear, save the sound of the surf of the seas in the far-off pebbles of the Lonely Isle; and soon the wind blew even that faint rustle far away. But Ælfwine stood forward with wide-open eyes unspeaking, and suddenly with a great cry he sprang forward into the dark sea, and the waters that filled him were warm, and a kindly death it seemed enveloped him. Then it seemed to the others that they awakened at his voice as from a dream; but the wind now suddenly grown fierce filled all their sails, and they saw him never again, but were driven back with hearts all broken with regret and longing. Pale elfin boats awhile they would see beating home, maybe, to the Haven of Many Hues, and they hailed them; but only faint echoes afar off were borne to their ears, and none led them ever to the land of their desire; who after a great time wound back all the mazy clue of their long tangled ways, until they cast anchor at last in the haven of Belerion, aged and wayworn men. And the things they had seen and heard seemed after to them a mirage, and a phantasy, born of hunger and sea-spells, save only to Bior of Eneadur of the Ship-folk of the West.
</p>

Yet among the seed of these men has there been many a restless and wistful spirit thereafter, since they were dead and passed beyond the Rim of Earth without need of boat or sail. But never while life lasted did they leave their sea-faring, and their bodies are all covered by the sea.<SUP>42</SUP>

The narrative ends here. There is no trace of any further continuation, though it seems likely that <I>Ælfwine of England</I> was to be the beginning of a complete rewriting of the <I>Lost Tales</I>. It would be interesting to know for certain when <I>Ælfwine II</I> was written. The handwriting of the manuscript is certainly changed from that of the rest of the <I>Lost Tales</I>; yet I am inclined to think that it followed <I>Ælfwine I</I> at no great interval, and the first version is unlikely to be much later than 1920 (see p. 312).

At the end of <I>Ælfwine If</I> my father jotted down two suggestions: (1) that Ælfwine should be made ‘an early pagan Englishman who fled to the West’; and (2) that ‘the Isle of the Old Man’ should be cut out and all should be shipwrecked on Eneadur, the Isle of the Ythlings. The latter would (astonishingly) have entailed the abandonment of the foundered ship, with the Man of the Sea thrusting it to shore on the incoming tide, and the dead Vikings ‘lying abottom <I>gazing</I> at the sky’.

In this narrative - in which the ‘magic’ of the early Elves is most intensely conveyed, in the seamen's vision of the Lonely Isle beneath

