---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P337.
date: 1984-01-01 05:37
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 337
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
much as <I>doth falc</I>, a cleft, ravine, or narrow way of waters with high walls'. QL under root KIRI ‘cut, split’ <I>has kiris</I> ‘cleft, crack’ and other words.
</p>

For <I>ilbrant</I> ‘rainbow’ see I.256 (<I>Ilweran</I>). The final element is<BR><I>teloth</I> ‘roofing, canopy’: see I.267—8 (<I>Teleri</I>).

<B>Cristhorn</B>For Cm see Cm <I>Ilbranteloth</I>, and for <I>thorn</I> see I.266 (<I>Sorontur</I>). In NFG is the entry: ‘Cris <I>Thorn</I> is Eagles' Cleft or <I>Sornekiris.’</I>

<B>Cuilwarthon</B>For <I>cuil</I> see I.257 (<I>Koivië-néni</I>); the second element is not explained.

<B>Cûm an-Idrisaith </B>For cûm ‘mound’ see I.250 (<I>Cûm a Gumlaith). Idrisaith</I> is thus defined in GL: 'cf. <I>avosaith</I>, but that means avarice, money-greed, but <I>idrisaith =</I> excessive love of gold and gems and beautiful and costly things' (for <I>avosaith</I> see <I>Ausir</I>). Related words are <I>idra</I> ‘dear, precious’, <I>idra</I> ‘to value, prize’, <I>idri (îd</I>) ‘a treasure, a jewel’, <I>idril</I> ‘sweetheart’ (see <I>Idril</I>).

<B>Curufin</B>presumably contains <I>curu</I> ‘magic’; see I.269 (<I>Tolli Kuruvar</I>).

<B>Dairon</B>GL includes this name but without etymological explanation: <I>‘Dairon</I> the fluter (Qenya <I>Sairon).’</I> See <I>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva</I> below.

<B>Danigwiel</B>In GL the Gnomish form is <I>Danigwethil;</I> see I.266 (<I>Taniquetil</I>). NFG has an entry: <I>‘Danigwethil</I> do the Gnomes call <I>Taniquetil;</I> but seek for tales concerning that mountain rather in the elfin name.’

<B>(bo-)Dhrauthodavros</B>‘(Son of) the weary forest’. Gnomish <I>drauth</I> ‘weary, toilworn’, <I>drauthos</I> ‘toil, weariness’, <I>drautha-</I> ‘to be weary’; for the second element <I>tavros</I> see I.267 (<I>Tavari</I>).

<B>Dor Athro</B><I>See Artanor, Sarnathrod</I>.

<B>Dor-na-Dhaideloth</B>For Gnomish <I>dai</I> ‘sky’ see I.268 (<I>Telimektar</I>), and for <I>teloth</I> ‘roofing, canopy’ see <I>ibid. (Teleri</I>); cf. Cm <I>Ilbran-teloth </I>.

<B>Dramborleg</B>NFG has the following entry: <I>‘Dramborleg</I> (or as it may be named <I>Drambor</I>) meaneth in its full form Thudder-sharp, and was the axe of Tuor that smote both a heavy dint as of a club and cleft as a sword; and the Eldar say <I>Turambar</I> or <I>Tarambolaika.’</I> QL gives <I>Tarambor, Tarambolaike</I> ‘Tuor's axe’ under root TARA, TARAMA ‘batter, thud, beat’, with <I>taran, tarambo</I> ‘buffet’, and <I>taru</I> ‘horn’ (included here with a query: see <I>Taruithorn</I>). No Gnomish equivalents are cited in GL.

The second element is Gnomish <I>leg, lêg</I> ‘keen, piercing’, Qenya<BR><I>laika;</I> cf. <I>Legolast</I> ‘keen-sight’, I.267 (<I>Tári-Laisi</I>).

<B>Duilin</B>NFG has the following entry: <I>‘Duilin</I> whose name meaneth Swallow was the lord of that house of the Gondothlim whose sign was the swallow and was surest of the archers of the Eldalië, but fell in the fall of Gondolin. Now the names of those champions appear

