---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P121.
date: 1984-01-01 02:01
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 121
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
panied him, one of whom returned to Mavwin while the older remained with Túrin, were never lost; and the cry of Túrin as they set out reappears in the <I>Narn</I> (p. 73): ‘Morwen, Morwen, when shall I see you again?’
</p>

Beleg was present from the beginning, as was the meaning of his name: ‘he was called Beleg <I>for</I> he was of great stature’ (see I.254, entry <I>Haloisi velikë</I>, and the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion</I>, entry <I>beleg)</I>; and he plays the same rôle in the old story, rescuing the travellers starving in the forest and taking them to the king.

In the later versions there is no trace of the remarkable message sent by Tinwelint to Mavwin, and indeed his curiously candid explanation, that he held aloof from the Battle of Unnumbered Tears because in his wisdom he foresaw that Artanor could become a refuge if disaster befell, is hardly in keeping with his character as afterwards conceived. There were of course quite other reasons for his conduct <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 189). On the other hand, Mavwin's motives for not herself leaving Hithlum remained unchanged (see the passage in <I>the Narn, p</I>. 70, where the word ‘almsguest’ is an echo of the old tale); but the statement is puzzling that Mavwin might, when Nienóri was grown, have put aside her pride and passed over the mountains, had they not become impassable - clearly suggesting that she never left Hithlum. Perhaps the meaning is, however, that she might have made the journey <I>earlier</I> (while Túrin was still in Artanor) than she in fact did (when for a time the ways became easier, but Túrin had gone).

The character of Túrin as a boy reappears in every stroke of the description in the <I>Narn</I> (p. 77):

It seemed that fortune was unfriendly to him, so that often what he designed went awry, and what he desired he did not gain; neither did he win friendship easily, for he was not merry, and laughed seldom, and a shadow lay on his youth.

(It is a notable point that is added in the tale: ‘at no time did he give much heed to words that were spoken to him’). And the ending of all word between Túrin and his mother comes about in the same way -increased guard on the mountains <I>(Narn</I> p. 78).

While the story of Túrin and Saeros as told in <I>The Silmarillion</I>, and in far more detail in the <I>Narn</I>, goes back in essentials to the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>, there are some notable differences - the chief being that as the story was first told Túrin's tormentor was slain outright by the thrown drinking-cup. The later complications of Saeros’ treacherous assault on Túrin the following day and his chase to the death, of the trial of Túrin in his absence for this deed and of the testimony of Nellas (this last only in <I>the Narn</I>) are entirely absent, necessarily; nor does Mablung appear - indeed it seems clear that Mablung first emerged at the end of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> (see p. 59). Some details survived (as the comb

