---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P310.
date: 1984-01-01 05:10
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 310
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Elves dwelt in Luthany before the invasions of Men began (27) to the rest of the scheme. Doubtless in these jottings my father was thinking with his pen, exploring independent narrative paths; one gets the impression of a ferment of ideas and possibilities rapidly displacing one another, from which no one stable narrative core can be extracted. A complete ‘solution’ is therefore in all probability an unreal aim, and this reconstruction no doubt as artificial as that attempted earlier for ‘the <I>Eriol </I>story’ (see p. 293). But here as there I believe that this outline shows as well as can be the direction of my father's thought at that time.
</p>

There is very little to indicate the further course of ‘the <I>Ælfwine </I>story’ after his sojourn in Tol Eressëa (as I have remarked, p. 301, the part of the mariner is only to learn and record tales out of the past); and virtually all that can be learned from these notes is found on a slip that reads:

<B>(29)   </B>How Ælfwine drank of <I>limpë </I>but thirsted for his home, and went back to Luthany; and thirsted then unquenchably for the Elves, and went back to Tavrobel the Old and dwelt in the House of the Hundred Chimneys (where grows still the child of the child of the Pine of Belawryn) and wrote the Golden Book.

Associated with this is a title-page:

<B>(30) </B>The Book of Lost Tales

and the History of the Elves of Luthany

[?being]

The Golden Book of Tavrobel

the same that Ælfwine wrote and laid in the House of a Hundred<BR>Chimneys at Tavrobel, where it lieth still to read for such as may.

These are very curious. Tavrobel the Old must be the original Tavrobel in Luthany (after which Tavrobel in Tol Eressëa was named, just as Kortirion in Tol Eressëa was named after Kortirion = Warwick in Luthany); and the House of the Hundred Chimneys (as also the Pine of Belawryn, on which see p. 281 and note 4) was to be displaced from Tol Eressëa to Luthany. Presumably my father intended to rewrite those passages in the ‘framework’ of the <I>Lost Tales </I>where the House of a Hundred Chimneys in Tavrobel is referred to; unless there was to be another House of a Hundred Chimneys in Tavrobel the New in Tol Eressëa.

Lastly, an interesting entry in the Qenya dictionary may be mentioned here: <I>Parma Kuluinen </I>‘the Golden Book - the collected book of legends, especially of Ing and Eärendel’.

