---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P236.
date: 1984-01-01 03:56
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 236
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
array of Naugladur and the ways he purposed to follow, they sped<BR>back like wind among the trees unto their lord; but Ufedhin<BR>revealed not to them who he was, feigning to be an Elf of Artanor<BR>escaped from bondage in their host. Now therefore they entreated<BR>him well, and he was sent back to Beren that their captain might<BR>............ his words, and albeit Beren marvelled at his
</p>

[?cowardly] ..... .<SUP>14</SUP> and downward glance it seemed to him that

he brought safe word, and he set a trap for Naugladur.

No longer did he march hotly on the trail of the Dwarves, but knowing that they would essay the passage of the river Aros at a certain time he turned aside, faring swiftly with his light-footed Elves by straighter paths that he might reach Sarnathrod the Stony Ford before them. Now the Aros is a fierce stream — and is it not that very water that more near its spring runs swiftly past the aged doors of the Rodothlim's caves and the dark lairs of Glorund<SUP>15</SUP>

- and in those lower regions by no means can be crossed by a great host of laden men save at this ford, nor is it overeasy here. Never would Naugladur have taken that way had he knowledge of Beren

- yet blinded by the spell and the dazzling gold he feared nought either within or without his host, and he was in haste to reach Nogrod and its dark caverns, for the Dwarves list not long to abide in the bright light of day.

Now came all that host to the banks of Aros, and their array was thus: first a number of unladen Dwarves most fully armed, and amidmost the great company of those that bore the treasury of Glorund, and many a fair thing beside that they had haled from Tinwelint's halls; and behind these was Naugladur, and he bestrode Tinwelint's horse, and a strange figure did he seem, for the legs of the Dwarves are short and crooked, but two Dwarves led that horse for it went not willingly and it was laden with spoil. But behind these came again a mass of armed men but little laden; and in this array they sought to cross Sarnathrod on their day of doom.

Morn was it when they reached the hither bank and high noon saw them yet passing in long-strung lines and wading slowly the shallow places of the swift-running stream. Here doth it widen out and fare down narrow channels filled with boulders atween long spits of shingle and stones less great. Now did Naugladur slip from his burdened horse and prepare to get him over, for the armed host of the vanguard had climbed already the further bank, and it was great and sheer and thick with trees, and the bearers of the gold were some already stepped thereon and some amidmost of the stream, but the armed men of the rear were resting awhile.

