---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P332.
date: 1984-01-01 05:32
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 332
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
39   The plot-outline <I>Ælfwine A </I>tells the story from the point where Ælfwine and his seven companions were cast on the Isle of the Man of the Sea (thus differing from <I>Ælfwine I </I>and <I>II</I>, where he came there alone) thus:
</p>

They wander about the island upon which they have been cast and come upon many decaying wrecks - often of mighty ships, some treasure-laden. They find a solitary cabin beside a lonely sea, built of old ship-wood, where dwells a solitary and strange old mariner of dread aspect. He tells them these are the Harbour-less Isles whose enchanted rocks draw all ships thither, lest men fare over far upon Garsedge <I>[see note 19] - </I>and they were devised at the Hiding of Valinor. Here, he says, the trees are magical. They learn many strange things about the western world of him and their desire is whetted for adventure. He aids them to cut holy trees in the island groves and to build a wonderful vessel, and shows them how to provision it against a long voyage (that water that drieth not save when heart fails, &c.). This he blesses with a spell of adventure and discovery, and then dives from a cliff-top. They suspect it was Neorth Lord of Waters.

They journey many years among strange western islands hearing often many strange reports - of the belt of Magic Isles which few have passed; of the trackless sea beyond where the wind bloweth almost always from the West; of the edge of the twilight and the far-glimpsed isle there standing, and its glimmering haven. They reach the magic island <I>[read </I>islands?] and three are enchanted and fall asleep on the shore.

The others beat about the waters beyond and are in despair -for as often as they make headway west the wind changes and bears them back. At last they tryst to return on the morrow if nought other happens. The day breaks chill and dull, and they lie becalmed looking in vain through the pouring rain.

This narrative differs from both <I>Ælfwine I </I>and <I>II</I> in that here there is no mention of the Ythlings; and Ælfwine and his seven companions depart on their long western voyage from the Harbour-less Isle of the ancient mariner. It agrees with <I>Ælfwine I </I>in the name Neorth; but it foreshadows <I>II</I> in the cutting of sacred trees to build a ship.

40   In <I>Ælfwine I </I>Ælfheah does not appear, and his two speeches in this passage are there given to one <I>Gelimer. </I>Gelimer (Geilamir) was the name of a king of the Vandals in the sixth century.

41   In <I>Ælfwine I </I>Bior's speech is given to Gelimer (see note 40).

42   <I>Ælfwine I </I>ends in almost the same words as <I>Ælfwine II, </I>but with a most extraordinary difference; Ælfwine does not leap overboard, but returns with his companions to Belerion, and so never comes to

