---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P211.
date: 1984-01-01 03:31
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 211
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
THEFALL OFGONDOLIN <B>2II</B>
</p>

Anach and the upper waters of Sirion, whither [Morgoth's] servants had never passed’ (p. 241); but ‘still no spy or creature out of Angband could come there because of the vigilance of the eagles' - and of this rôle of the eagles of the Encircling Mountains (though hostile to Melko, p. 193) there is in the original story no suggestion.

Thus in <I>The Silmarillion</I> Morgoth remained in ignorance until Maeglin's capture of the precise location of Gondolin, and Maeglin's information was of correspondingly greater value to him, as it was also of greater damage to the city. The history of the last years of Gondolin has thus a somewhat different atmosphere in the tale, for the Gondothlim are informed of the fact that Melko has ‘encompassed the vale of Tumladin around’ (p. 167), and Turgon makes preparations for war and strengthens the watch on the hills. The withdrawal of all Melko's spies shortly before the attack on Gondolin did indeed bring about a renewal of optimism among the Gondothlim, and in Turgon not least, so that when the attack came the people were unprepared; but in the later story the shock of the sudden assault is much greater, for there has never been any reason to suppose that the city is in immediate danger, and Idril's foreboding is peculiar to herself and more mysterious.

(v) <I>The array of the Gondothlim (pp</I>. 171-4)

Though the central image of this part of the story - the people of Gondolin looking out from their walls to hail the rising sun on the feast of the Gates of Summer, but seeing a red light rising in the north and not in the east - survived, of all the heraldry in this passage scarcely anything is found in later writings. Doubtless, if my father had continued the later <I>Tuor</I>, much would have re-emerged, however changed, if we judge by the rich ‘heraldic’ descriptions of the great gates and their guards in the Orfalch Echor (pp. 46—50). But in the concise account in <I>The Silmarillion</I> the only vestiges are the titles Ecthelion ‘of the Fountain’\* and Glorfindel ‘chief of the House of the Golden Flower of Gondolin’. Ecthelion and Glorfindel are named also in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 194) as Turgon's captains who guarded the flanks of the host of Gondolin in their retreat down Sirion from the Nirnaeth Arnoediad, but of other captains named in the tale there is no mention afterwards† — though it is significant that the eighteenth Ruling Steward of Gondor was named Egalmoth, as the

\* In the later <I>Tuor</I> (p. 50) he is ‘Lord of the Fountains', plural (the reading in the manuscript is certain).

† In the version of ‘The Silmarillion’ made in 1930 (see footnote on p. 208), the last account of the Fall of Gondolin to be written and the basis for that in chapter 23 of the published work, the text actually reads: ’. . . much is told in <I>The Fall of Gondolin:</I> of the death of Rog without the walls, and of the battle of Ecthelion of the Fountain ’, &c. I removed the reference to Rog (<I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 242) on the grounds that it was absolutely certain that my father would not have retained this name as that of a lord of Gondolin.

