---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P290.
date: 1984-01-01 04:50
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 290
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
I.23-4 but with the omission of some features that were not there relevant. I repeat it here, with the addition of the statements previously omitted.
</p>

<B>(10) </B>Eriol's original name was Ottor, but he called himself <I>Wǽfre</I> (Old English: ‘restless, wandering’) and lived a life on the waters. His father was named Eoh (Old English: ‘horse’); and Eoh was slain by his brother Beorn, either ‘in the siege’ or ‘in a great battle’. Ottor Wǽfre settled on the island of Heligoland in the North Sea, and wedded a woman named Cwén; they had two sons named Hengest and Horsa ‘to avenge Eoh’.

Then sea-longing gripped Ottor Wǽfre (he was ‘a son of Eärendel’, born under his beam), and after the death of Cwén he left his young children. Hengest and Horsa avenged Eoh and became great chieftains; but Ottor Wǽfre set out to seek, and find, Tol Eressëa <I>(se uncúþaholm</I>, ‘the unknown island’).

In Tol Eressëa he wedded, being made young by <I>limpë</I> (here also called by the Old English word <I>líp</I>), Naimi (Éadgifu), niece of Vairë, and they had a son named Heorrenda.

It is then said, somewhat inconsequentially (though the matter is in itself of much interest, and recurs nowhere else), that Eriol told the fairies of <I>Wóden, Punor, Tíw</I>, etc. (these being the Old English names of the Germanic gods who in Old Scandinavian form are <I>Óðinn, Pórr, Týr</I>), and they identified them with Manweg, Tulkas, and a third whose name is illegible but is not like that of any of the great Valar.

Eriol adopted the name of <I>Angol</I>.

Thus it is that through Eriol and his sons the <I>Engle</I> (i.e. the English) have the true tradition of the fairies, of whom the <I>Iras</I> and the <I>Wéalas</I> (the Irish and Welsh) tell garbled things.

Thus a specifically English fairy-lore is born, and one more true than anything to be found in Celtic lands.

The wedding of Eriol in Tol Eressëa is never referred to elsewhere; but his son Heorrenda is mentioned (though not called Eriol's son) in the initial link to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (p. 145) as one who ‘afterwards’ turned a song of Meril's maidens into the language of his people. A little more light will be shed on Heorrenda in the course of this chapter.

Associated with these notes is a title-page and a prologue that breaks off after a few lines:

<B>(11) </B>The Golden Book of Heorrenda

being the book of the<BR>Tales of Tavrobel

Heorrenda of Hægwudu

