---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P262.
date: 1984-01-01 04:22
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 262
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
One would certainly suppose this account to be earlier than anything so far considered (both from the fact that Eärendel's history after his return from the great voyage seems to bear no relation to that in B and C, and from his voyage being set in the lands and oceans of the known world), were it not for the reference to the ‘little book’, which must mean ‘Notebook C', from which the outline C above is taken (see p. 254). But I think it very probable (and the appearance of the MS rather supports this) that the last paragraph (‘The golden city was Kôr . . .’) was added later, and that the rest of the outline belongs with the earliest writing of the poem, in the winter of 1914.
</p>

It is notable that only here in the earliest writings is it made clear that the ‘diamond dust’ that coated Eärendel came from the streets of Kôr (cf. the passage from <I>The Silmarillion</I> cited on p. 257).

Another of the early Eärendel poems, ‘The Shores of Faëry’, has a short prose preface, which if not as old as the first composition of the poem itself (July 1915, see p. 271) is certainly not much later:

Eärendel the Wanderer who beat about the Oceans of the World in his white ship Wingelot sat long while in his old age upon the Isle of Seabirds in the Northern Waters ere he set forth upon a last voyage.

He passed Taniquetil and even Valinor, and drew his bark over the bar at the margin of the world, and launched it on the Oceans of the Firmament. Of his ventures there no man has told, save that hunted by the orbed Moon he fled back to Valinor, and mounting the towers of Kôr upon the rocks of Eglamar he gazed back upon the Oceans of the World. To Eglamar he comes ever at plenilune when the Moon sails a-harrying beyond Taniquetil and Valinor.\*

Both here and in the outline associated with ‘The Bidding of the Minstrel’ Eärendel was conceived to be an old man when he journeyed into the firmament.

No other ‘connected’ account of the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I> exists from the earliest period. There are however a number of separate notes, mostly in the form of single sentences, some found in the little notebook C, others jotted down on slips. I collect these references here more or less in the sequence of the tale.

(i) ‘Dwelling in the Isle of Sirion in a house of snow-white stone.’ - In C (p. 254) it is said that Eärendel dwelt with Tuor and Idril at Sirion's mouth by the sea ‘on the Isles of Sirion’.

