---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P336.
date: 1984-01-01 05:36
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 336
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Asgon An entry in NFG says: <I>‘Asgon</I> A lake in the “Land of Shadows”
</p>

Dor Lómin, by the Elves named<I>Aksan.’<BR></I><B>Ausir</B>GL gives <I>avos</I> ‘fortune, wealth, prosperity,’ <I>avosir, Ausir</I> ‘the

same (personified)’; also <I>ausin</I> ‘rich’, <I>aus(s)aith</I> or <I>avosaith</I>

‘avarice’. Under root AWA in QL are autë ‘prosperity, wealth; rich’,

<I>ausië</I> ‘wealth’.

<B>Bablon</B>Seep. 214.

<B>Bad Uthwen </B>Gnomish <I>uthwen</I> ‘way out, exit, escape’, see I.251 (<I>Dor Faidwen</I>). The entry in NFG says: <I>‘Bad Uthwen</I> [emended from <I>Uswen]</I> meaneth but “way of escape” and is in Eldarissa <I>Uswevandë.’</I> For <I>vandë</I> see I.264 (<I>Qalvanda</I>).

<B>Balcmeg</B>In NFG it is said that Balcmeg ‘was a great fighter among the <I>Orclim (Orqui</I> say the Elves) who fell to the axe of Tuor - 'tis in meaning “heart of evil”.’ (For -lim<I></I> in <I>Orclim</I> see <I>Gondothlim.</I>) The entry f<I>or Balrog</I> in NFG says: <I>‘Bal</I> meaneth evilness, <I>and Balc</I> evil, and <I>Balrog</I> meaneth evil demon.’ GL has <I>balc</I> ‘cruel’: see I.250 (<I>Balrog</I>).

<B>Bansil</B>For the entry in NFG, where this name is translated ‘Fair-gleam’, see p. 214; and for the elements of the name see I.272 (<I>Vána</I>) and I.265 (Sil).

<B>Belaurin</B>See I.264 (<I>Palúrien</I>).

<B>Belcha</B>See I.260 (<I>Melko</I>). NFG has an entry: <I>‘Belca</I> Though here [i.e. in the Tale] of overwhelming custom did Bronweg use the elfin names, this was the name aforetime of that evil Ainu.’

<B>Beleg</B>See I.254 (<I>Haloisi Velikë</I>).

<B>Belegost</B>For the first element see <I>Beleg</I>. GL gives <I>ost</I> ‘enclosure, yard - town’, also <I>oss</I> ‘outer wall, town wall’, <I>osta-</I> ‘surround with walls, fortify’, <I>ostor</I> ‘enclosure, circuit of walls', QL under root OSO has <I>os(t</I>) ‘house, cottage’, <I>osta</I> ‘homestead’, <I>ostar</I> ‘township’, <I>ossa</I> ‘wall and moat’.

bo-A late entry in GL: <I>‘bo (bon</I>) (cf. Qenya <I>vô, vondo</I> “son”) as patronymic prefix, <I>bo- bon-</I> “son of’”; as an example is given <I>Tuor bo-Beleg</I>. There is also a word <I>bôr</I> ‘descendant’. See <I>go-, Indorion</I>.

<B>Bodruith</B>In association with <I>bod-</I> ‘back, again’ GL has the words <I>bodruith</I> ‘revenge’, <I>bodruithol</I> ‘vengeful (by nature)’, <I>bodruithog</I> ‘thirsting for vengeance’, but these were struck out. There is also <I>gruith</I> ‘deed of horror, violent act, vengeance’. - It may be that Bodruith Lord of Belegost was supposed to have received his name from the events of the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I>.

<B>Cópas Alqalunten</B>See I.257 (<I>Kópas</I>) and I.249 (<I>Alqaluntë).<BR></I><B>Cris Ilbranteloth</B>GL gives the group <I>crisc</I> ‘sharp’, <I>criss</I> ‘cleft, gash,<BR>gully’, <I>crist</I> ‘knife’, <I>crista-</I> ‘slash, cut, slice’; NFG: ‘Cris meaneth

