---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P212.
date: 1984-01-01 03:32
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 212
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
seventeenth and twenty-fifth were named Ecthelion (<I>The Lord of the Rings</I>, Appendix A (I,ii)).\*
</p>

Glorfindel ‘of the golden hair’ (p. 192) remains ‘yellow-haired Glorfindel’ in <I>The Silmarillion</I>, and this was from the beginning the meaning of his name.

(vi) <I>The battle of Gondolin</I> (pp. 174-88)

Virtually the entire history of the fighting in Gondolin is unique in the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>; the whole story is summarised in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 242) in a few lines:

Of the deeds of desperate valour there done, by the chieftains of the noble houses and their warriors, and not least by Tuor, much is told in <I>The Fall of Gondolin:</I> of the battle of Ecthelion of the Fountain with Gothmog Lord of Balrogs in the very square of the King, where each slew the other, and of the defence of the tower of Turgon by the people of his household, until the tower was overthrown: and mighty was its fall and the fall of Turgon in its ruin.

Tuor sought to rescue Idril from the sack of the city, but Maeglin had laid hands on her, and on Earendil; and Tuor fought with Maeglin on the walls, and cast him far out, and his body as it fell smote the rocky slopes of Amon Gwareth thrice ere it pitched into the flames below. Then Tuor and Idril led such remnants of the people of Gondolin as they could gather in the confusion of the burning down the secret way which Idril had prepared.

(In this highly compressed account the detail that Maeglin's body struck the slopes of Amon Gwareth three times before it ‘pitched’ into the flames was retained.) It would seem from <I>The Silmarillion</I> account that Maeglin's attempt on Idril and Earendil took place much later in the fighting, and indeed shortly before the escape of the fugitives down the tunnel; but I think that this is far more likely to be the result of compression than of a change in the narrative of the battle.

In the tale Gondolin is very clearly visualised as a city, with its markets and its great squares, of which there are only vestiges in later writing (see above, p. 207); and there is nothing vague in the description of the fighting. The early conception of the Balrogs makes them less terrible, and certainly more destructible, than they afterwards became: they

\* In a very late note written on one of the texts that constitute chapter 16 of <I>The Silmarillion</I> (‘Of Maeglin’) my father was thinking of making the ‘three lords of his household' whom Turgon appointed to ride with Aredhel from Gondolin (p. 131) Glorfindel, Ecthelion, and Egalmoth. He notes that Ecthelion and Egalmoth ‘are derived from the primitive F[all of]G[ondolin]’, but that they ‘are well-sounding and have been in print’ (with reference to the names of the Stewards of Condor). Subsequently he decided against naming Aredhel's escort.

