---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P247.
date: 1984-01-01 04:07
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 247
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
But however much the chief actors in this tale are ‘enspelled’ or blindly carrying forward the mysterious dictates of a curse, there is no question but that the Dwarves in the original conception were altogether more ignoble than they afterwards became, more prone to evil to gain their ends, and more exclusively impelled by greed; that Doriath should be laid waste by mercenary Orcs under Dwarvish paymasters (p. 230) was to become incredible and impossible later. It is even said that by the deeds of Naugladur ‘have the Dwarves been severed in feud for ever since those days with the Elves, and drawn more nigh in friendship to the kin of Melko’ (p. 230); and in the outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> the Nauglath are an evil people, associates of goblins (I.236-7). In a rejected outline for the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> (p. 136) the Necklace was made ‘by certain Úvanimor (Nautar or Nauglath)’, Úvanimor being defined elsewhere as ‘monsters, giants, and ogres'. With all this compare <I>The Lord of the Rings</I>, Appendix F (I): ‘They [the Dwarves] are not evil by nature, and few ever served the Enemy of free will, whatever the tales of Men may have alleged.’
</p>

The account of the Dwarves in this tale is of exceptional interest in other respects. ‘The beards of the Indrafangs’ have been named in Tinúviel's ‘lengthening spell’ (pp. 19, 46); but this is the first description of the Dwarves in my father's writings - already with the spelling that he maintained against the unceasing opposition of proof-readers - and they are eminently recognisable in their dour and hidden natures, in their ‘unloveliness’ (<I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 113), and in their ‘marvellous skill with metals' (<I>ibid</I>. p. 92). The strange statement that ‘never comes a child among them’ is perhaps to be related to ‘the foolish opinion among Men’ referred to in <I>The Lord of the Rings</I>, Appendix A (III), ‘that there are no Dwarf-women, and that the Dwarves “grow out of stone”.’ In the same place it is said that ‘it is because of the fewness of women among them that the kind of the Dwarves increases slowly’.

It is also said in the tale that it is thought by some that the Dwarves ‘have not heard of Ilúvatar’; on knowledge of Ilúvatar among Men see p. 209.

According to the Gnomish dictionary <I>Indrafang</I> was ‘a special name of the Longbeards or Dwarves', but in the tale it is made quite plain that the Longbeards were on the contrary the Dwarves of Belegost; the Dwarves of Nogrod were the Nauglath, with their king Naugladur. It must be admitted however that the use of the terms is sometimes confusing, or confused: thus the description of the Nauglath on pp. 223-4 seems to be a description of all Dwarves, and to include the Indrafangs, though this cannot have been intended. The reference to ‘the march of the Dwarves and Indrafangs’ (p. 234) must be taken as an ellipse, i.e. ‘the Dwarves of Nogrod and the Indrafangs’. Naugladur of Nogrod and Bodruith of Belegost are said to have been akin (p. 235), though this perhaps only means that they were both Dwarves whereas Ufedhin was an Elf.

