---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P330.
date: 1984-01-01 05:30
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 330
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Lúthien (friend) of Luthany (friendship)).’ - At this first occurrence (only) of <I>Lúthien </I>in <I>Ælfwine II </I>the form <I>Leithian </I>is pencilled above, but <I>Lúthien </I>is not struck out. <I>The Lay of Leithian </I>was afterwards the title of the long poem of Beren and Lúthien Tinúviel.
</p>

21   <I>The Hill of Tûn, </I>i.e. the hill on which the city of Tûn was built: see p. 292.

22   <I>Mindon Gwar: </I>see p. 291.

23   <I>Éadgifu: </I>in ‘the <I>Eriol </I>story’ this Old English name (see p. 323) was given as an equivalent to Naimi, Eriol's wife whom he wedded in Tol Eressëa (p. 290).

24   In <I>Ælfwine I </I>the text here reads: ‘by reason of her beauty and goodliness, even as that king of the Franks that was upon a time most mighty among men hath said . . .’ <I>[sic]. </I>In <I>Ælfwine II </I>the manuscript in ink stops at ‘high white shores', but after these words my father pencilled in: ‘even as that king of the Franks that was in those days the mightiest of earthly kings hath said . . .’ <I>[sic]. </I>The only clue in <I>Ælfwine of England </I>to the period of Ælfwine's life is the invasion of the Forodwaith (Vikings); the mighty king of the Franks may therefore be Charlemagne, but I have been unable to trace any such reference.

25   <I>Evil </I>is emended from <I>Melko. Ælfwine I </I>does not have the phrase.

26   <I>Ælfwine I </I>has: ‘when the ancient Men of the South from Micelgeard the Heartless Town set their mighty feet upon the soil of Lúthien.’ This text does not have the reference to Rûm and Magbar. The name <I>Micelgeard </I>is struck through, but <I>Mickleyard </I>is written at the head of the page. <I>Micelgeard </I>is Old English (and <I>Mickleyard </I>a modernisation of this in spelling), though it does not occur in extant Old English writings and is modelled on Old Norse <I>Mikligaror </I>(Constantinople). - The peculiar hostility of the Romans to the Elves of Luthany is mentioned by implication in citation (20), and their disbelief in their existence in (22).

27   The application, frequent in <I>Ælwine I, </I>of ‘little’ to the fairies (Elves) of Lúthien and their ships was retained in <I>Ælfwine II </I>as first written, but afterwards struck out. Here the word is twice retained, perhaps unintentionally.

28   <I>Elvish </I>is a later emendation <I>of fairy.</I>

29   This sentence, from ‘save Ælfheah . . .’, was added later in <I>Ælfwine II; </I>it is not in <I>Ælfwine I. — </I>The whole text to this point in <I>Ælfwine I </I>and <I>II</I> is compressed into the following in <I>Ælfwine A:</I>

Ælfwine of England (whom the fairies after named Lúthien (friend) of Luthany (friendship)) born of Déor and Éadgifu. Their city burned and Déor slain and Éadgifu dies. Ælfwine a thrall of the Winged Helms. He escapes to the Western Sea and takes ship from Belerion and makes great voyages. He is

