---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P346.
date: 1984-01-01 05:46
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 346
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
glossaries, but probably all are derivatives of the stem <I>mel-</I>‘love’;
</p>

see I<I>.262 (Nessa)</I>.The later etymology of <I>Melian</I>derived the name

from <I>mel-</I>‘love’ (<I>Melyanna</I>‘dear gift’). <B>Meoita, Miaugion, Miaulë </B>See <I>Tevildo</I>.<B>Mindon-Gwar </B>For <I>mindon</I>‘tower’ see I.260 (<I>Minethlos);</I>and for

Gwar see p. 291 and I.257 (<I>Kôr, korin).<BR></I><B>Morgoth   </B>See p. 67 and <I>Gothmog</I>.For the element <I>mor-</I>see I.261

(<I>Mornië).<BR></I><B>Mormagli, Mormakil    </B>See I.261 (<I>Mornië</I>)and I.259 (<I>Makar)</I>.

<B>Nan Dumgorthin    </B>See p. 62. For <I>nan</I>see I.261 (<I>Nandini)</I>.

<B>Nantathrin    </B>This name does not occur in the <I>Lost Tales</I>,where the Land of Willows is called <I>Tasarinan</I>,but GL gives it (see 1.265 (<I>Sirion)</I>)and NFG has an entry: <I>‘Dor-tathrin</I>was that Land of Willows of which this and many a tale tells.’ GL has <I>tathrin</I>‘willow’, and QL <I>tasarin</I>of the same meaning.

<B>Nauglafring    </B>GL has the following entry: <I>‘Nauglafring — Fring na Nauglithon</I>,the Necklace of the Dwarves. Made for Ellu by the Dwarves from the gold of Glorund that Mîm the fatherless cursed and that brought ruin on Beren Ermabwed and Damrod his son and was not appeased till it sank with Elwing beloved of Eärendel to the bottom of the sea.’ For Damrod (Daimord) son of Beren see pp. 139, 259, and for the loss of Elwing and the Nauglafring see pp. 255, 264. This is the only reference to the ‘appeasing’ of Mîm's curse. - Gnomish <I>fring</I>means ‘carcanet, necklace’ (Qenya <I>firinga)</I>.

<B>Níniel   </B>Cf. Gnomish <I>nîn</I>‘tear’, <I>ninios</I>‘lamentation’, <I>ninna-</I>‘weep’; see I<I>.262 (Nienna)</I>.

<B>Ninin-Udathriol    </B>(‘Unnumbered Tears'). See <I>Níniel</I>.GL gives <I>tathn</I>‘number’, <I>tathra-</I>‘number, count’, <I>udathnarol, udathriol</I>‘innumerable’. <I>Û-</I>is a ‘negative prefix with any part of speech’. (QL casts no light on <I>Nieriltasinwa</I>,p. 84, apart from the initial element <I>me</I>‘tear’, see I.262 (<I>Nienna)</I>.)

<B>Noldorissa    </B>See <I>Eldarissa</I>.

<B>Nos Galdon, Nos nan Alwen    </B>See <I>Duilin, Galdor</I>.

<B>Nost-na-Lothion    </B>See <I>Duilin</I>.

<B>Parma Kuluinen </B>The Golden Book, see p. 310. This entry is given in QL under root PARA: <I>parma</I>‘skin, bark; parchment; book, writings'. This word survived in later Quenya (<I>The Lord of the Rings</I>III.401). <I>For Kuluinen seeGlingol</I>.

<B>Peleg    </B>(Father of Tuor). GL has a common noun <I>peleg</I>'axe', verb <I>pelectha-</I>‘hew’ (QL <I>pelekko</I>'axe', <I>pelekta-</I>‘hew’). Cf. Tuor's name <I>Pelecthon</I>in the note cited under <I>Idril</I>.

<B>Ramandur    </B>See I.259 (<I>Makar)</I>.

