---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P293.
date: 1984-01-01 04:53
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 293
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
-   In Tol Eressëa Eriol was wedded and had a son named Heorrenda (Half-elven!). (According to (5) Eriol died at Tavrobel, consumed with longing for ‘the black cliffs of his shores'; but according to (8), certainly later, he lived to see the Battle of the Heath of the Sky-roof.)
</p>

-   The Lost Elves of the Great Lands rose against the dominion of the servants of Melko; and the untimely Faring Forth took place, at which time Tol Eressëa was drawn east back across the Ocean and anchored off the coasts of the Great Lands. The western half broke off when Ossë tried to drag the island back, and it became the Isle of Íverin (= Ireland).

-   Tol Eressëa was now in the geographical position of England.

-   The great battle of Rôs ended in the defeat of the Elves, who retreated into hiding in Tol Eressëa.

-   Evil men entered Tol Eressëa, accompanied by Orcs and other hostile beings.

-   The Battle of the Heath of the Sky-roof took place not far from Tavrobel, and (according to (8)) was witnessed by Eriol, who completed the Golden Book.

-   The Elves faded and became invisible to the eyes of almost all Men.

-   The sons of Eriol, Hengest, Horsa, and Heorrenda, conquered the island and it became ‘England’. They were not hostile to the Elves, and from them the English have ‘the true tradition of the fairies'.

-   Kortirion, ancient dwelling of the fairies, came to be known in the tongue of the English as Warwick; Hengest dwelt there, while Horsa dwelt at Taruithorn (Oxford) and Heorrenda at Tavrobel (Great Haywood). (According to (11) Heorrenda completed the Golden Book.)

This reconstruction may not be ‘correct’ in all its parts: indeed, it may be that any such attempt is artificial, treating all the notes and jottings as of equal weight and all the ideas as strictly contemporaneous and relatable to each other. Nonetheless I believe that it shows rightly in essentials how my father was thinking of ordering the narrative in which the <I>Lost Tales</I> were to be set; and I believe also that this was the conception that still underlay the <I>Tales</I> as they are extant and have been given in these books.

For convenience later I shall refer to this narrative as ‘the <I>Eriol</I> story’. Its most remarkable features, in contrast to the later story, are the transformation of Tol Eressëa into England, and the early appearance of the mariner (in relation to the whole history) and his importance.

In fact, my father was exploring (before he decided on a radical transformation of the whole conception) ideas whereby his importance would be greatly increased.

