---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P201.
date: 1984-01-01 03:21
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 201
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<B>THEFALL OFGONDOLIN 2OI</B>
</p>

Eärendel and his escort Tuor is downcast, and Idril weeps.’ This was rewritten partly for narrative reasons, but also to put it into the past tense. In the next sentence the text was emended from ‘Lamentation is there . . .’ and ‘about them looms . . .’ But the sentence following (‘Fire-drakes are about it . . .’) was left untouched; and I think that it was my father's intention, only casually indicated and never carried through, to reduce the amount of ‘historical present’ in the narrative.

34 ‘for summer is at hand’: the original reading was ‘albeit it is winter’. See notes 26 and 37.

35 The original reading was:

Now the Mountains were on that side seven leagues save a mile from Gondolin, and Cristhorn the Cleft of Eagles another league of upward going from the beginning of the Mountains; wherefore they were now yet two leagues and part of a third from the pass, and very weary thereto.

36 ‘Behold, his face shineth as a star in the waste’ was added to <I>Tuor B</I>.

37 This passage, from ‘But after a year and more of wandering . . .’, replaced the original reading ‘But after a half-year's wandering, nigh midsummer’. This emendation depends on the changing of the time of the attack on Gondolin from midwinter to the ‘Gates of Summer’ (see notes 26 and 34). Thus in the revised version summer is retained as the season when the exiles came to the lands about Sirion, but they spent a whole year and more, rather than a half-year, to reach them.

38 ‘even where Tulkas’: original reading: ‘even where Noldorin and Tulkas’. See pp. 278-9.

39 The original pencilled text of <I>Tuor A</I> had ‘Fair among the Lothlim grows Eärendel in Sornontur the house of Tuor’. The fourth letter of this name could as well be read as a <I>u</I>.

Changes made to names in<BR><I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>

<I>Ilfiniol< Elfriniol</I> in the first three occurrences of the name in the<BR>initial linking passage, <I>Ilfiniol</I> so written at the fourth.

(In <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> (I.15) the Gong-warden of Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva is named only <I>Littleheart</I>; in the <I>Link</I> to <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> his Elvish name is <I>Ilverin < Elwenildo</I> (I.46,52); and in the <I>Link</I> to the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> he is <I>Ilfiniol < Elfriniol</I> as here, while the typescript has <I>Ilfrin</I> (p. 7).

In the head-note to the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> he is <I>Elfrith < Elfriniel</I>, and this is the only place where the meaning of the name ‘Littleheart’ is explained (p. 148); the Name-list has an

