---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P63.
date: 1984-01-01 01:03
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 63
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Dungortheb ‘the Valley of Dreadful Death’, it becomes in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (pp. 81, 121) a ‘no-land’ between the Girdle of Melian and Ered Gorgoroth, the Mountains of Terror. But the description of it in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> as a ‘northward region of Artanor’ clearly does not imply that it lay within the protective magic of Gwendeling, and it seems that this ‘zone’ was originally less distinctly bounded, and less extensive, than ‘the Girdle of Melian’ afterwards became. Probably <I>Artanor</I> was conceived at this time as a great region of forest in the heart of which was Tinwelint's cavern, and only his immediate domain was protected by the power of the queen:
</p>

Hidden was his dwelling from the vision and knowledge of Melko by the magics of Gwendeling the fay, and she wove spells about the paths thereto that none but the Eldar might tread them easily, and so was the king secured from all dangers save it be treachery alone. (p. 9).

It seems, also, that her protection was originally by no means so complete and so mighty a wall of defence as it became. Thus, although Orcs and wolves disappeared when Beren and Tinúviel ‘stepped within the circle of Gwendeling's magic that hid the paths from evil things and kept harm from the regions of the woodelves’ (p. 35), the fear is expressed that even if Beren and Tinúviel reached the cavern of King Tinwelint ‘they would but draw the chase behind them thither’ (p. 34), and Tinwelint's people feared that Melko would ‘upraise his strength and come utterly to crush them and Gwendeling's magic have not the strength to withhold the numbers of the Orcs' (p. 36).

The picture of Menegroth beside Esgalduin, accessible only by the bridge (<I>The Silmarillion</I> pp. 92-3) goes back to the beginning, though neither cave nor river are named in the tale. But (as will be seen more emphatically in later tales in this book) Tinwelint, the wood-fairy in his cavern, had a long elevation before him, to become ultimately Thingol of the Thousand Caves (‘the fairest dwelling of any king that has ever been east of the Sea’). In the beginning, Tinwelint's dwelling was not a subterranean city full of marvels, silver fountains falling into basins of marble and pillars carved like trees, but a rugged cave; and if in the typescript version the cave comes to be ‘vaulted immeasureable’, it is still illuminated only by the dim and flickering light of torches (pp. 43, 46).

There have been earlier references in the <I>Lost Tales</I> to Tinwelint and the place of his dwelling. In a passage added to, but then rejected from, the tale of <I>The Chaining of Melko</I> (1.106, note 1) it is said that he was lost in Hisilómë and met Wendelin there; ‘loving her he was content to leave his folk and dance for ever in the shadows'. In <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> (1.115) ‘Tinwë abode not long with his people, and yet 'tis said lives still lord of the scattered Elves of Hisilómë’; and in the same tale (1.118-19) the ‘Lost Elves' were still there ‘long after when Men were

