---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P198.
date: 1984-01-01 03:18
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 198
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
10 The original reading was: ‘Thou Tuor of the lonely heart the Valar will not to dwell for ever in fair places of birds and flowers; nor would they lead thee through this pleasant land . . .’
</p>

11 <I>Tuor C</I> adds here: ‘with Ulmo's aid’.

12 The reference to the Battle of Unnumbered Tears is a later addition to <I>Tuor B</I>. The original reading was: ‘who alone escaped Melko's power when he caught their folk . . .’

13 In <I>Tuor A</I> and <I>B Voronwë</I> is used throughout, but this phrase, with the form <I>Bronweg</I>, is an addition to <I>Tuor B</I> (replacing the original ‘Now after many days these twain found a deep dale’).

14 The typescript Tuor C has here:

. . . that none, were they not of the blood of the Noldoli, might light on it, neither by chance nor agelong search. Thus was it secure from all ill hap save treachery alone, and never would Tûr have won thereto but for the steadfastness of that Gnome Voronwë.

In the next sentence <I>Tuor C</I> has ‘yet even so no few of the bolder of the Gnomes enthralled would slip down the river Sirion from the fell mountains'.

15 The original reading was: ‘his speech they comprehended, though somewhat different was the tongue of the free Noldoli by those days to that of the sad thralls of Melko.’ The typescript <I>Tuor C has:</I> ‘they comprehended him for they were Noldoli. Then spake Tûr also in the same tongue

16 The original reading was: ‘It was early morn when they drew near the gates and many eyes gazed . . .’ But when Tuor and Voronwë first saw Gondolin it was ‘in the new light of the morning’ (p. 158), and it was ‘a day's light march’ across the plain; hence the change made later to <I>Tuor B</I>.

<I>1</I>7<I></I> ‘Evil One’: original reading ‘Ainu’.

18 This passage, from ‘Rugged was his aspect. . .’, is a replacement on a separate slip; the original text was:

Tuor was goodly in countenance but rugged and unkempt of locks and clad in the skins of bears, yet his stature was not overgreat among his own folk, but the Gondothlim, though not bent as were no few of their kin who laboured at ceaseless delving and hammering for Melko, were small and slender and lithe.

In the original passage Men are declared to be of their nature taller than the Elves of Gondolin. See pp. 142, 220.

19 ‘come hither’: ‘escaped from Melko’ <I>Tuor C</I>.

20 ‘folk’: original reading ‘men’. This is the only place where ‘men’ in reference to Elves is changed. The use is constant in <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, and even occurs once in an odd-sounding reference to

