---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P279.
date: 1984-01-01 04:39
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 279
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Did not even after the days of Tuor Noldorin and his Eldar come there seeking for Dor Lómin and the hidden river and the caverns of the Gnomes' imprisonment; yet thus nigh to their quest's end were like to abandon it? Indeed sleeping and dancing here . . . they were whelmed by the goblins sped by Melko from the Hills of Iron and Noldorin made bare escape thence.
</p>

Valwë has been mentioned once before, by Lindo, on Eriol's first evening in Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva (I.16): ‘My father Valwë who went with Noldorin to find the Gnomes.’ Of Noldorin we know also that he was the Vala Salmar, the twin-brother of Ómar-Amillo; that he entered the world with Ulmo, and that in Valinor he played the harp and lyre and loved the Noldoli (I.66, 75, 93, 126).

An isolated note states:

<B>(2)   </B>Noldorin escapes from the defeat of the Land of Willows and takes his harp and goes seeking in the Iron Mountains for Valwë and the Gnomes until he finds their place of imprisonment. Tulkas follows. Melko comes to meet him.

The only one of the great Valar who is mentioned in these notes as taking part in the expedition to the Great Lands is Tulkas; but whatever story underlay his presence, despite the anger and sorrow of the Valar at the March of the Elves (see p. 257), is quite irrecoverable. (A very faint hint concerning it is found in two isolated notes: ‘Tulkas gives - or the Elves take <I>limpë</I> with them’, and <I>‘Limpë</I> given by the Gods (Oromë? Tulkas?) when Elves left Valinor’; cf. <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I> (I. 166): ‘no <I>limpë</I> had they [the Noldoli] as yet to bring away, for that was not given to the fairies until long after, when the March of Liberation was undertaken’.) According to (1) above Tulkas fought with and overthrew Melko ‘in the battle of the Silent Pools'; and the Silent Pools are the Pools of Twilight, ‘where Tulkas after fought with Melko's self <I>(The Fall of Gondolin</I>, p. 195; the original reading here was ‘Noldorin and Tulkas’).

The name <I>Lumbi</I> is found elsewhere (in a list of names associated with the tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar</I>, I.93), where it is said to be Melko's third dwelling; and a jotting in notebook C, sufficiently mysterious, reads: ‘Lumfad. Melko's dwelling after release. Castle of Lumbi.’ But this story also is lost.

That the Noldoli were led back to Valinor by Egalmoth and Galdor, as stated in (1), is notable. This is contradicted in detail by a statement in the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, which says (p. 215) that Egalmoth was slain in the raid on the dwelling at the mouth of Sirion when Elwing was taken; and contradicted in general by the next citation to be given, which denies that the Elves were permitted to dwell in Valinor.

The only other statement concerning these events is found in the first

