---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P305.
date: 1984-01-01 05:05
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 305
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Roman writers' term <I>Inguaeones</I> for the Baltic maritime peoples from whom the English came; the name <I>Ingwine</I> (interpretable either as <I>Ing-wine</I> ‘the friends of Ing’ or as containing the same <I>Ingw-</I> seen in <I>Inguaeones);</I> or the mysterious personage <I>Ing</I> who appears in the Old English <I>Runic Poem:</I>
</p>

Ing wæs ærestmid East-Denum<BR>gesewen secgumoþ he siþþan east<BR>ofer wæg gewat; wæn æfter ran

- which may be translated: ‘Ing was first seen by men among the East Danes, until he departed eastwards over the waves; his car sped after him.’ It would serve no purpose, because although the connection of my father's <I>Ing, Ingwë</I> with the shadowy <I>Ing (Ingw-</I>) of northern historical legend is certain and indeed obvious he seems to have been intending no more than an <I>association</I> of his mythology with known traditions (though the words of the <I>Runic Poem</I> were clearly influential). The matter is made particularly obscure by the fact that in these notes the names <I>Ing</I> and <I>Ingwë</I> intertwine with each other, but are never expressly differentiated or identified.

Thus Ælfwine was ‘of the kin of Ing, King of Luthany’ (15, 16), but the Elves retreated ‘to Luthany where Ingwë was king’ (18). The Elves of Luthany throve again ‘after the coming of the sons of Ing’ (19), and the Ingwaiwar, seventh of the invaders of Luthany, were more friendly to the Elves (20), while Ingwë ‘founded’ the Ingwaiwar (20). This name is certainly to be equated with Inguaeones (see above), and the invasion of the Ingwaiwar (or ‘sons of Ing’) equally certainly represents the ‘Anglo-Saxon’ invasion of Britain. Can <I>Ing, Ingwë</I> be equated? So far as this present material is concerned, I hardly see how they can not be. Whether this ancestor-founder is to be equated with <I>Inwë</I> (whose son was <I>Ingil</I>) of the <I>Lost Tales</I> is another question. It is hard to believe that there is no connection (especially since <I>Inwë</I> in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> is emended from <I>Ing</I>, I.22), yet it is equally difficult to see what that connection could be, since Inwë of the <I>Lost Tales</I> is an Elda of Kôr (Ingwë Lord of the Vanyar in <I>The Silmarillion</I>) while Ing(wë) of ‘the <I>Ælfwine</I> story’ is a Man, the King of Luthany and Ælfwine's ancestor. (In outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> it is said that Ing King of Luthany was descended from Ermon, or from Ermon and Elmir (the first Men, I.236-7).)

The following outlines tell some more concerning Ing(wë) and the Ingwaiwar:

(22) How Ing sailed away at eld [i.e. in old age] into the twilight, and Men say he came to the Gods, but he dwells on Tol Eressëa, and will guide the fairies one day back to Luthany when the Faring Forth takes place.\*

• The term ‘Faring Forth’ is used here in a prophetic sense, not as it is in (18) and (20).

