---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P125.
date: 1984-01-01 02:05
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 125
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
in the tale, p. 112; and Túrin's name derived from the sword (here <I>Mormagli, Mormakil</I>, later <I>Mormegil</I>) was already devised. But of Túrin's disguising of his true name in Nargothrond there is no suggestion: indeed it is explicitly stated that he said who he was.
</p>

Of Gelmir and Arminas and the warning they brought to Nargothrond from Ulmo <I>(Narn</I> pp. 159-62) the germ can perhaps be seen in the ‘whispers in the stream at eve’, which undoubtedly implies messages from Ulmo (see p. 77).

The dragon Glorund is named in the ‘lengthening spell’ in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> (pp. 19, 46), but the actual name was only introduced in the course of the writing of the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> (see note 11). There is no suggestion that he had played any previous part in the history, or indeed that he was the first of his kind, the Father of Dragons, with a long record of evil already before the Sack of Nargothrond. Of great interest is the passage in which the nature of the dragons of Melko is defined: their evil wisdom, their love of lies and gold (which ‘they may not use or enjoy’), and the knowledge of tongues that Men say would come from eating a dragon's heart (with evident reference to the legend in the Norse Edda of Sigurd Fafnisbane, who was enabled to understand, to his own great profit, the speech of birds when he ate the heart of the dragon Fafnir, roasting it on a spit).

The story of the sack of Nargothrond is somewhat differently treated in the old story, although the essentials were to remain of the driving away of Failivrin/Finduilas among the captives and of the powerlessness of Túrin to aid her, being spellbound by the dragon. Minor differences (such as the later arrival of Glorund on the scene: in <I>The Silmarillion</I> Túrin only came back to Nargothrond after Glaurung had entered the caves and the sack was ‘well nigh achieved’) and minor agreements (such as the denial of the plunder to the Orcs) may here be passed over; most interesting is the account of Túrin's words with the dragon. Here the whole issue of Túrin's escaping or not escaping his doom is introduced, and it is significant that he takes the name <I>Turambar</I> at this juncture, whereas in the later legend he takes it when he joins the Woodmen in Brethil, and less is made of it. The old version is far less powerfully and concisely expressed, and the dragon's words are less subtle and ingeniously untrue. Here too the moral is very explicitly pointed, that Túrin <I>should not</I> have abandoned Failivrin ‘in danger that he himself could see’ - does this not suggest that, even under the dragon's spell as he was, there was a weakness (a ‘blindness’, see p. 83) in Túrin which the dragon touched? As the story is told in <I>The Silmarillion</I> the moral would seem uncalled for: Túrin was opposed by an adversary too powerful for his mind and will.

There is here a remarkable passage in which suicide is declared a sin, depriving such a one of all hope ‘that ever his spirit would be freed from the dark glooms of Mandos or stray into the pleasant paths of Valinor’. This seems to go with the perplexing passage in the tale of <I>The Coming</I>

