---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P338.
date: 1984-01-01 05:38
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 338
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
but in Noldorissa, seeing that Gnomes they were, but his name would be in Eldarissa <I>Tuilindo</I>, and that of his house (which the Gnomes called <I>Nos Duilin) Nossë Tuilinda.’ Tuilindo</I> ‘(spring-singer), swallow’ is given in QL, see I.269 (<I>Tuilérë);</I> GL has <I>duilin(g</I>) ‘swallow’, with <I>duil, duilir</I> ‘Spring’, but these last were struck through and in another part of the book appear <I>tuil, tuilir</I> ‘Spring’ (see I.269).
</p>

For <I>nossë</I> ‘kin, people’ see I.272 (<I>Valinor);</I> GL does not give <I>nos</I> in this sense, but has <I>nosta-</I> ‘be born’, <I>nost</I> ‘birth; blood, high birth; birthday’, and <I>noss</I> (changed to <I>nôs</I>) ‘birthday’. Cf. <I>Nost-na-Lothion</I> ‘the Birth of Flowers', <I>Nos Galdon, Nos nan Alwen</I>.

<B>Eärámë </B>For <I>ea</I> ‘eagle’ see I.251 (<I>Eärendel</I>), and for <I>rámë</I> see <I>Alqarámë</I>. GL has an entry <I>Iorothram, -um ’=</I> Qenya <I>Eārámë</I> or Eaglepinion, a name of one of Eärendel's boats'. For Gnomish <I>ior, ioroth</I> ‘eagle’ see I.251 (<I>Eärendel</I>), and cf. the forms <I>Earam, Earum</I> as the name of the ship (pp. 260, 276).

<B>Eärendel </B>See pp. 266-7 and I.251.

<B>Eärendilyon </B>See I.251 (<I>Eärendel</I>), and <I>Indorion</I>.

<B>Ecthelion</B>Both GL and NFG derive this name from <I>ecthel</I> ‘fountain’, to which corresponds Qenya <I>ektelë</I>. (This latter survived: cf. the entry <I>kel-</I> in the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion:</I> ‘from <I>et-kele</I> “issue of water, spring” was derived, with transposition of the consonants, Quenya <I>ehtelë</I>, Sindarin <I>eithel’</I>. A later entry in GL gives <I>aithil</I> (< <I>ektl</I>) ‘a spring’.) - A form <I>kektelë</I> is also found in Qenya from root KELE, KELU : see I.257 (<I>Kelusindi</I>).

<B>Egalmoth</B>NFG has the following entry: <I>‘Egalmoth</I> is a great name, yet none know clearly its meaning - some have said its bearer was so named in that he was worth a thousand Elves (but Rúmil says nay) and others that it signifies the mighty shoulders of that Gnome, and so saith Rúmil, but perchance it was woven of a secret tongue of the Gondothlim’ (for the remainder of this entry see p. 215). For Gnomish <I>moth</I> ‘1000’ see I.270 (<I>Uin</I>).

GL interprets the name as Rúmil did, deriving it from <I>alm</I> (< <I>alðam-</I>) ‘the broad of the back from shoulder to shoulder, back, shoulders', hence <I>Egalmoth =</I> ‘Broadshoulder’; the name in Qenya is said to be <I>Aikaldamor</I>, and an entry in QL of the same date gives <I>aika</I> ‘broad, vast’, comparing Gnomish <I>eg, egrin</I>. These in turn GL glosses as ‘far away, wide, distant’ and ‘wide, vast, broad; far’ (as in <I>Egla</I>; see I.251 (<I>Eldar)</I>).

<B>Eglamar</B>See I. 251 (<I>Eldamar</I>). NFG has the following entry: <I>‘Egla</I> said the son of Bronweg was the Gnome name of the Eldar (now but seldom used) who dwelt in Kôr, and they were called <I>Eglothrim</I> [emended from <I>Eglothlim]</I> (that is <I>Eldalië</I>), and their tongue <I>Lam Eglathon</I> or <I>Egladrin</I>. Rúmil said these names <I>Egla</I> and <I>Elda</I> were akin, but Elfrith cared not overmuch for such lore and they seem not

