---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P3.
date: 1984-01-01 00:03
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 3
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
There is also a typescript version of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel,</I> later than the manuscript but belonging to the same ‘phase’ of the mythology: my father had the manuscript before him and changed the text as he went along. Significant differences between the two versions of the tale are given on pp. 41 ff.
</p>

In the manuscript the tale is headed: ‘Link to the Tale of Tinúviel, also the Tale of Tinúviel.’ The <I>Link</I> begins with the following passage:

‘Great was the power of Melko for ill,’ said Eriol, ‘if he could indeed destroy with his cunning the happiness and glory of the Gods and Elves, darkening the light of their dwelling and bringing all their love to naught. This must surely be the worst deed that ever he has done.’

‘Of a truth never has such evil again been done in Valinor,’ said Lindo, ‘but Melko's hand has laboured at worse things in the world, and the seeds of his evil have waxen since to a great and terrible growth. ’

‘Nay,’ said Eriol, ‘yet can my heart not think of other griefs, for sorrow at the destruction of those most fair Trees and the darkness of the world.’

This passage was struck out, and is not found in the typescript text, but it reappears in almost identical form at the end of <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I> (1.169). The reason for this was that my father decided that the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon,</I> rather than <I>Tinúviel,</I> should follow <I>The Darkening of Valinor</I> and <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I> (see I.203-4, where the complex question of the re-ordering of the <I>Tales</I> at this point is discussed). The opening words of the next part of <I>the Link,</I> ‘Now in the days soon after the telling of this tale’, referred, when they were written, to the tale of <I>The Darkening of Valinor</I> and <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I>; but it is never made plain to what tale they were to refer when <I>Tinúviel</I> had been removed from its earlier position.

The two versions of the <I>Link</I> are at first very close, but when Eriol speaks of his own past history they diverge. For the earlier part I give the typescript text alone, and when they diverge I give them both in

