---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P282.
date: 1984-01-01 04:42
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 282
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Melko is thus now out of the world - but one day he will find a way<BR>back, and the last great uproars will begin before the Great End.
</p>

The evils that still happen come about in this wise. The Gods can cause things to enter the hearts of Men, but not of Elves (hence their difficult dealings in the old days of the Exile of the Gnomes) -and though Melko sits without, gnawing his fingers and gazing in anger on the world, he can suggest evil to Men so inclined - but the lies he planted of old still grow and spread.

Hence Melko can now work hurt and damage and evil in the world only through Men, and he has more power and subtlety with Men than Manwë or any of the Gods, because of his long sojourn in the world and among Men.

In these early chartings we are in a primitive mythology, with Melko reduced to a grotesque figure chased up a great pine-tree, which is thereupon cut down to keep him out of the world, where he ‘stalks high above the air’ or ‘sits without, gnawing his fingers', and upsets the Sun-ship so that Urwendi falls into the Sea - and, most strangely, meets her death.

That Ingil (Gil) who with Telimektar pursues Melko is to be identified with Ingil son of Inwë who built Kortirion is certain and appears from several notes; see the Appendix on Names to Vol. I, entries <I>Ingil, Telimektar.</I> This is the fullest statement of the Orion-myth, which is referred to in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> (see I.182,200):

of Nielluin [Sirius] too, who is the Bee of Azure, Nielluin whom still may all men see in autumn or winter burning nigh the foot of Telimektar son of Tulkas whose tale is yet to tell.

In the Gnomish dictionary it is said (I.256) that Gil rose into the heavens and ‘in the likeness of a great bee bearing honey of flame’ followed Telimektar. This presumably represents a distinct conception from that referred to above, where Ingil ‘went long ago back to Valinor and is with Manwë’ (I.129).

With the reference to Fionwë's slaying of Melko ‘in the end’ cf. the end of <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> (I.219):

Fionwë Úrion, son of Manwë, of love for Urwendi shall in the end be Melko's bane, and shall destroy the world to destroy his foe, and so shall all things then be rolled away.

Cf. also the <I>Tale of Turambar,</I> p. 116, where it is said that Turambar ‘shall stand beside Fionwë in the Great Wrack’.

For the prophecies and hopes of the Elves concerning the Rekindling of the Magic Sun see pp. 285-6.

