---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P141.
date: 1984-01-01 02:21
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 141
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
where the Woodmen dwelt. It is said (p. 95) that ‘the dwellings of the Rodothlim were not utterly distant from the realm of Tinwelint, albeit far enough’; while the Woodmen dwelt ‘in lands that were not utterly far from Sirion or the grassy hills of that river's middle course’ (p. 91), which may be taken to agree tolerably with the situation of the Forest of Brethil. The region where they lived is said in the same passage to have been ‘very far away many a journey beyond the river of the Rodothlim’, and Glorund's wrath was great when he heard of ‘a brave folk of Men that dwelt far beyond the river’ (p. 103); this also can be accommodated quite well to the developed geographical conception -Brethil was indeed a good distance beyond the river (Narog) for one setting out from Nargothrond.
</p>

My strong impression is that though the geography of the west of the Great Lands <I>may</I> have been still fairly vague, it already had, in many important respects, the same essential structure and relations as those seen on the map accompanying <I>The Silmarillion</I>.

(iv) <I>The influence of the Valar</I>

As in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> (see p. 68), in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> also there are several references to the power of the Valar in the affairs of Men and Elves in the Great Lands - and to prayers, both of thanksgiving and request, addressed to them: thus Túrin's guardians ‘thanked the Valar’ that they accomplished the journey to Artanor (p. 72), and more remarkably, Úrin ‘called upon the Valar of the West, being taught much concerning them by the Eldar of Kôr- the Gnomes he had encountered -and his words came, who shall say how, to Manwë Súlimo upon the heights of Taniquetil'(p. 77). (Úrin was already an 'Elf-friend’, instructed by the Noldoli; cf. the replacement passage on p. 72.) Was his prayer ‘answered’? Possibly this is the meaning of the very strange expression ‘as the luck of the Valar had it’ (p. 79), when Flinding and Beleg found Túrin lying near the point where they entered the Orc-camp.\*

Dreams sent by the Valar came to the chieftains of the Rodothlim, though this was changed later and the reference to the Valar removed (p. 83 and note 10); the Woodmen said ‘Would that the Valar would lift the spell that lies upon Níniel’ (p. 101); and Túrin ‘cried out bitterly against the Valar and his fate of woe’ (p. 111).

An interesting reference to the Valar (and their power) occurs in Tinwelint's reply (p. 95) to Mavwin's words ‘Give me but a woodman's cot and my son’. The king said: ‘That I cannot, for I am but a king of the wild Elves, <I>and no Vala of the western isles.’</I> In the small part of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> that was actually written it is told (I. 231) of the Dark Elves who remained in Palisor that they said that ‘their brethren had gone

\* The Gnomish dictionary has the entry: <I>gwalt</I> ‘good luck - any providential occurrence<BR>or thought: “the luck of the Valar”, <I>i-walt ne Vanion’</I> (I.272).

