---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P52.
date: 1984-01-01 00:52
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 52
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The story of Beren's coming upon Tinúviel in the moonlit glade in its earliest recorded form (pp. 11-12) was never changed in its central image; and it should be noticed that the passage in <I>The Silmarillion </I>(p. 165) is an extremely concentrated and exalted rendering of the scene: many elements not mentioned there were never in fact lost. In a very late reworking of the passage in the <I>Lay of Leithian* </I>the hemlocks and the white moths still appear, and Daeron the minstrel is present when Beren comes to the glade. But there are nonetheless the most remarkable differences; and the chief of these is of course that Beren was here no mortal Man, but an Elf, one of the Noldoli, and the absolutely essential element of the story of Beren and Lúthien is not present. It will be seen later (pp. 71-2, 139) that this was not originally so, however: in the now lost (because erased) first form of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel </I>he had been a Man (it is for this reason that I have said that the reading <I>man </I>in the manuscript (see p. 33 and note 10), later changed to <I>Gnome, </I>is a ‘significant slip’). Several years after the composition of the tale in the form in which we have it he became a Man again, though at that time (1925-6) my father appears to have hesitated long on the matter of the elvish or mortal nature of Beren.
</p>

In the tale there is, necessarily, a quite different reason for the hostility and distrust shown to Beren in Artanor (Doriath) - namely that ‘the Elves of the woodland thought of the Gnomes of Dor Lómin as treacherous creatures, cruel and faithless’ (see below, p. 65). It seems clear that at this time the history of Beren and his father (Egnor) was only very sketchily devised; there is in any case no hint of the story of the outlaw band led by his father and its betrayal by Gorlim the Unhappy <I>(The Silmarillion </I>pp. 162ff.) before the first form of the <I>Lay of Leithian, </I>where the story appears fully formed (the Lay was in being to rather beyond this point by the late summer of 1925). But an association of Beren's father (changed to Beren himself) with Úrin (Húrin) as ‘brother in arms’ is mentioned in the typescript version of the tale (pp. 44-5); according to the latest of the outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale </I>(1.240) ‘Úrin and Egnor marched with countless battalions' (against the forces of Melko).

In the old story, Tinúviel had no meetings with Beren before the day when he boldly accosted her at last, and it was at that very time that she led him to Tinwelint's cave; they were not lovers, Tinúviel knew nothing of Beren but that he was enamoured of her dancing, and it seems that she brought him before her father as a matter of courtesy, the natural thing to do. The betrayal of Beren to Thingol by Daeron <I>(The Silmarillion p. </I>166) therefore has no place in the old story - there is nothing to betray; and indeed it is not shown in the tale that Dairon knew anything

