---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P335.
date: 1984-01-01 05:35
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 335
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
This appendix is designed only as an adjunct and extension to that in Part One. Names that have already been studied in Part One are not given entries in the following notes, if there are entries under that name in Part One, e.g. <I>Melko, Valinor</I>; but if, as is often the case, the etymological information in Part One is contained in an entry under some other name, this is shown, e.g. <I>‘Gilim</I> See I.260 <I>(Melko)’</I>.
</p>

Linguistic information from the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (see p. 148) incorporated in these notes is referred to 'NFG'. 'GL' and 'QL' refer to the Gnomish and Qenya dictionaries (see I. 246ff.). <I>Qenya</I> is the term used in both these books and is strictly the name of the language spoken in Tol Eressëa; it does not appear elsewhere in the early writings, where the distinction is between ‘Gnomish’ on the one hand and ‘Elfin’, ‘Eldar’, or ‘Eldarissa’ on the other.

<B>Alqarámë </B>For the first element Qenya <I>alga</I> ‘swan’ see I.249 <I>(Alqaluntë</I>). Under root RAHA QL gives <I>râ</I> ‘arm’, <I>rakta</I> ‘stretch out, reach’, <I>ráma</I> ‘wing’, <I>rámavoitë</I> ‘having wings'; GL has <I>ram</I> ‘wing, pinion’, and it is noted that Qenya <I>ráma</I> is a confusion of this and a word <I>róma</I> ‘shoulder’.

<B>Amon Gwareth </B>Under root AM(U) 'up(wards)’ QL gives <I>amu</I> 'up(wards)’, <I>amu-</I> ‘raise’, <I>amuntë</I> ‘sunrise’, <I>amun(d</I>) ‘hill’; GL has <I>am</I> 'up(wards)’, <I>amon</I> ‘hill, mount’, adverb ‘uphill’.

GL gives the name as <I>Amon ‘Wareth</I> ‘Hill of Ward’, also <I>gwareth</I> ‘watch, guard, ward’, from the stem <I>gwar-</I> ‘watch’ seen also in the name of <I>Tinfang Warble (Gwarbilin</I> ‘Birdward’, I.268). See <I>Glamhoth, Gwarestrin</I>.

<B>Angorodin </B>See I.249 <I>(Angamandi</I>) and I. 256 <I>(Kalormë</I>).

<B>Arlisgion </B>GL gives <I>Garlisgion</I> (see I.265 <I>(Sirion)</I>), as also does NFG, which has entries <I>‘Garlisgion</I> was our name, saith Elfrith, for the Place of Reeds which is its interpretation’, and <I>‘lisg</I> is a reed <I>(liskë)’</I>. GL has <I>lisg, Use</I> ‘reed, sedge’, and QL <I>liskë</I> with the same meaning. For gar see I.251 <I>(Dor Faidiven</I>).

<B>Artanor </B>GL has <I>athra</I> ‘across, athwart’, <I>athron</I> adverb ‘further, beyond’, <I>athrod</I> ‘crossing, ford’ (changed later to <I>adr(a), adron, adros</I>). With <I>athra, adr(a</I>) is compared Qenya <I>ana</I>. Cf. also the name <I>Dor Athro</I> (p. 41). It is clear that both <I>Artanor</I> and <I>Dor Athro</I> meant ‘the Land Beyond’. Cf. <I>Sarnathrod</I>.

