---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P301.
date: 1984-01-01 05:01
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 301
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
THEHISTORYOF ERIOLORÆLFWINE 3OI
</p>

‘Ælfwine’, then, is associated with a new conception, <I>subsequent to</I> the writing of the <I>Lost Tales</I>. The mariner is Ælfwine, not Eriol, in the second ‘Scheme’ for the <I>Tales</I>, which I have called ‘an unrealised project for the revision of the whole work’ (see I. 234). The essential difference may be made clear now, before citing the difficult evidence: <I>Tol Eressëa is now in no way identified with England</I>, and the story of the drawing back of the Lonely Island across the sea has been abandoned. England is indeed still at the heart of this later conception, and is named <I>Luthany</I>.<SUP>14</SUP> The mariner, Ælfwine, is an Englishman sailing westward from the coast of Britain; and his role is diminished. For whereas in the writings studied thus far he comes to Tol Eressëa <I>before</I> the denouement and disaster of the Faring Forth, and either he himself or his descendants witness the devastation of Tol Eressëa by the invasion of Men and their evil allies (in one line of development he was even to be responsible for it, p. 294), in the later narrative outlines he does not arrive until all the grievous history is done. His part is only to learn and to record.<SUP>15</SUP>

I turn now to a number of short and very oblique passages, written on separate slips, but found together and clearly dating from much the same time.

<B>(15) </B>Ælfwine of England dwelt in the South-west; he was of the kin of Ing, King of Luthany. His mother and father were slain by the sea-pirates and he was made captive.

He had always loved the fairies: his father had told him many things (of the tradition of Ing). He escapes. He beats about the northern and western waters. He meets the Ancient Mariner - and seeks for Tol Eressëa (<I>seo unwemme de íeg</I>), whither most of the unfaded Elves have retired from the noise, war, and clamour of Men.

The Elves greet him, and the more so when they learn of him who he is. They call him <I>Lúthien</I> the man of Luthany. He finds his own tongue, the ancient English tongue, is spoken in the isle.

The ‘Ancient Mariner’ has appeared in the story that Eriol told to Vëannë<BR>(pp. 5, 7), and much more will be told of him subsequently.

<B>(16) </B>Ælfwine of Englaland, <I>[added later:</I> driven by the Normans,] arrives in Tol Eressëa, whither most of the fading Elves have withdrawn from the world, and there fade now no more.

Description of the harbour of the southern shore. The fairies greet him well hearing he is from Englaland. He is surprised to hear them speak the speech of </FONT><FONT FACE="Georgia" 

The Elves name him Lúthien for he is come from Luthany, as they call it (‘friend’ and ‘friendship’). Eldaros or Ælfhâm. He is

