---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P200.
date: 1984-01-01 03:20
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 200
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I>, I.128. The original pencilled text<BR>of <I>Tuor A</I> can be read here: ‘bluer than the sapphires of Súlimo’.
</p>

26 The passage ending here and beginning with ‘In these ways that bitter winter passed . . .‘is inserted on a separate sheet in <I>Tuor B</I> (but is not part of the latest layer of emendation); it replaces a much shorter passage going back to the primary text of <I>Tuor A:</I>

Now on midwinter's day at early even the sun sank betimes beyond the mountains, and lo! when she had gone a light arose beyond the hills to the north, and men marvelled (&c.)

See notes 34 and 37.

27 The Scarlet Heart: the heart of Finwë Nólemë, Turgon's father, was cut out by Orcs in the Battle of Unnumbered Tears, but it was regained by Turgon and became his emblem; see I.241 and note 11.

28 This passage describing the array and the emblems of the houses of the Gondothlim was relatively very little affected by the later revision of <I>Tuor A;</I> the greater part of it is in the original pencilled text, which was allowed to stand, and all the names appear to be original.

29 The word ‘burg’ is used in the Old English sense of a walled and fortified town.

30 The death of Ecthelion in the primary text of <I>Tuor A</I> is legible; the revision introduced a few changes of wording, but no more.

31 This sentence, from ‘and men shuddered’, was added to <I>Tuor B</I>. On the prophecy see I.172.

32 <I>Tuor B</I> is bracketed from ‘Now comes Tuor at their head to the Place of Wedding’ on p. 186 to this point, and an inserted slip relating to this bracketing reads:

How Tuor and his folk came upon Idril wandering distraught in the Place of the Gods. How Tuor and Idril from that high place saw the sack of the King's Hall and the ruin of the King's Tower and the passing of the king, for which reason the foe followed not after. How Tuor heard tidings of Voronwë that Idril had sent Eärendel and her guard down the hidden way, and fared into the city in search of her husband; how in peril from the enemy they had rescued many that fled and sent them down the secret way. How Tuor led his host with the luck of the Gods to the mouth of that passage, and how all descended into the plain, sealing the entrance utterly behind them. How the sorrowful company issued into a dell in the vale of Tumladin.

This is simply a summary of the text as it stands; I suppose it was a cut proposed for the recitation of the tale if that seemed to be taking too long (see note 21).

33 This passage, from ‘Here were gathered . . .’, replaced in <I>Tuor B</I> the original reading: ‘Here they are fain to rest, but finding no signs of

