---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P117.
date: 1984-01-01 01:57
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 117
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
 13 Original reading ‘Túrin's heart was bitter, and so it was that he and that other alone returned from that battle’. - In the phrase ‘reproach-ing Túrin that he had ever withstood his wise counsels' ‘ever’ means ‘always’: Túrin had always resisted Orodreth's counsels.
</p>

 14   Original reading ‘although all folk at that time held such a deed

 grievous and cowardly’.

15   Original reading ‘and to look upon Nienóri again’. This was emended to ‘and to look upon Nienóri whom he had never seen’. The words ‘since his first days' were added still later.

16   The following passage was struck out, apparently at the time of writing:

“Indeed,” said they, “it is the report of men of travel and rangers

of the hills that for many and many moons have even the farthest

 marches been free of them and unwonted safe, and so have many

 men fared out of Hisilómë to the Lands Beyond.” And this was

the truth that during the life of Turambar as an exile from the

court of Tintoglin or hidden amongst the Rothwarin Melko had

troubled Hisilómë little and the paths thereto.

(<I>Rothwarin</I>was the original form throughout, replaced later by <I>Rodothlim</I>.)See p. 92, where the situation described in the rejected passage is referred to the earlier time (before the destruction of the Rodothlim) when Mavwin and Nienóri left Hisilómë.

17   Original reading ‘twice seven’. When Túrin fled from the land of<BR>Tinwelint it was exactly 12 years since he had left his mother's house<BR> (p.75), and Nienóri was born before that, but just how long before<BR>is not stated.

18   After ‘a great and terrible project afoot’ the original reading was ‘the<BR>story of which entereth not into this tale’. I do not know whether this<BR><I></I>means that when my father first wrote here of Melko's ‘project’ he<BR>did not have the destruction of the Rodothlim in mind.

19   ‘the king’: original reading ‘Linwë’. See note 7.

20   <I>Linwë:</I>an oversight. See note 7.

21     ‘that high place’: original reading ‘a hill’.

22   This sentence, ‘And even so was Turin's boast . . .’, was added in pencil later. The reference is to Turin's naming himself <I>Turambar-</I>‘from this hour shall none name me Túrin if I live’, p. 86.

23   This sentence, from ‘for his lineage . . .‘to approximately this point, is very lightly struck through. On the opposite page of the MS is hastily scribbled: ‘Make Turambar never tell new folk of his lineage (will bury the past) - this avoids chance (as cert.) of Níniel hearing his lineage from any.’ See Commentary, p. 131.

24   Against this sentence there is a pencilled question-mark in the margin. See note 23 and the Commentary, p. 131.

25   ‘And Níniel conceived’ was added in pencil later. See Commentary, p.135.

