---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P46.
date: 1984-01-01 00:46
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 46
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of lies. “No help wilt thou get therein of me, little one,” said she; “for even if magic and destiny should bring thee safe out of that foolhardiness, yet should many and great things come thereof, and on some many sorrows, and my rede is that thou tell never thy father of thy desire.”
</p>

But this last word of Melian's did Thingol coming unaware overhear, and they must perforce tell him all, and he was so wroth when he heard it that Tinúviel wished that never had her thoughts been revealed even to her mother.

(18)   Indeed I have no love for him, for he has destroyed our play together, our music and our dancing.” But Tinúviel said: “I ask it not for him, but for myself, and for that very play of ours together aforetime.” And Dairon said: “And for thy sake I say thee nay”; and they spake no more thereof together, but Dairon told the king of what Tinúviel had desired of him, fearing lest that dauntless maiden fare away to her death in the madness of her heart.

(18)   ... he might not shut his daughter for ever in the caves, where the<BR>light was only that of torches dim and flickering.

(19)   The names of all the tallest and longest things upon Earth were set in that song: the beards of the Indrafangs, the tail of Carcaras, the body of Glorund the drake, the bole of Hirilorn, and the sword of Nan she named, nor did she forget the chain Angainu that Aulë and Tulkas made, or the neck of Gilim the giant that is taller than many elm trees; . . .

<I>Carcaras </I>is spelt thus subsequently in the typescript.

(20)   ... as fast as her dancing feet would flit.

Now when the guards awoke it was late in the morning, and they fled away nor dared to bear the tidings to their lord; and Dairon it was bore word of the escape of Tinúviel to Thingol, for he had met the folk that ran in amazement from the ladders which each morning were lifted to her door. Great was the mingled grief and wrath of the king, and all the deep places of his court were in uproar, and all the woods were ringing with the search; but Tinúviel was already far away dancing madly through the dark woods towards the gloomy foothills and the Mountains of Night. ‘Tis said that Dairon sped swiftest and furthest in pursuit, but was wrapped in the deceit of those far places, and became utterly lost,

