---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P325.
date: 1984-01-01 05:25
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 325
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of the sea; yet rather did these hapless ones sleep unfathomably and the dark waters laved their limbs ...
</p>

Here three of Ælfwine's companions

slept upon dim strands in deadly sleep, and their heads were pillowed on white sand and they were clad in foam, wrapped about in the agelong spells of Eglavain (p. 320).

(I do not know the meaning of the name <I>Eglavain,</I> but since it clearly contains <I>Egla</I> (Gnomish, = <I>Elda,</I> see I.251) it perhaps meant ‘Elfinesse’.) But the Enchanted Isles derive also perhaps from the Twilit Isles, since the Enchanted Isles were likewise in twilight and were set in the Shadowy Seas (cf. I. 224); and from the Harbourless Isles as well, which, as Ælfwine was told by the Man of the Sea (p. 317), were set at the time of the Hiding of Valinor - and indeed served the same purpose as did the Magic Isles, though lying far further to the East.

Eneadur, the isle of the Ythlings (Old English <I>ýð</I> ‘wave’), whose life is so fully described in <I>Ælfwine of England,</I> seems never to have been mentioned again. Is there in Eneadur and the Shipmen of the West perhaps some faint foreshadowing of the early Númenóreans in their cliff-girt isle?

The following passage (pp. 316-17) is not easy to interpret:

Thence [i.e. from the Bay of Faery] slopes the world steeply beyond the Rim of Things to Valinor, that is God-home, and to the Wall and to the edge of Nothingness whereon are sown the stars.

In the <I>Ambarkanta</I> or ‘Shape of the World’ of the 1930s a map of the world shows the surface of the Outer Land sloping steeply westwards from the Mountains of Valinor. Conceivably it is to this slope that my father was referring here, and the Rim of Things is the great mountain-wall; but this seems very improbable. There are also references in <I>Ælfwine of England</I> to ‘the Rim of Earth’, beyond which the dead pass (pp. 314, 322); and in an outline for the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I> (p. 260) Tuor's boat ‘dips over the world's rim’. More likely, I think, the expression refers to the rim of the horizon (‘the horizon of Men's knowledge’, p. 313).

The expression ‘the sun was sinking to the Mountains of Valinor beyond the Western Walls' (p. 320) I am at a loss to explain according to what has been told in the <I>Lost Tales.</I> A possible, though scarcely convincing, interpretation is that the sun was sinking towards Valinor, <I>whence it would pass</I> ‘beyond the Western Walls' (i.e. through the Door of Night, see I.215-16).

Lastly, the suggestion (p. 313) is notable that the Elves sailing west

