---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P270.
date: 1984-01-01 04:30
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 270
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
account of Eärendel's great voyage given on p. 261. The poem was then much longer than it became, but the workings are exceedingly rough; they have no title. To the earliest finished text a title was added hastily later: this apparently reads ‘The Minstrel renounces the song’. The title then became ‘The Lay of Eärendel’, changed in the latest text to ‘The Bidding of the Minstrel, from the Lay of Eärendel’.
</p>

There are four versions following the original rough draft, but the changes made in them were slight, and I give the poem here in the latest form, noting only that originally the minstrel seems to have responded to the ‘bidding’ much earlier - at line 5, which read ‘Then harken - a tale of immortal sea-yearning’; and that ‘Eldar’ in line 6 and ‘Elven’ in line 23 are emendations, made on the latest text, of ‘fairies', ‘fairy’.

‘Sing us yet more of Eärendel the wandering,

Chant us a lay of his white-oared ship,

More marvellous-cunning than mortal man's pondering,

Foamily musical out on the deep.

Sing us a tale of immortal sea-yearning 5

The Eldar once made ere the change of the light,

Weaving a winelike spell, and a burning

Wonder of spray and the odours of night;

Of murmurous gloamings out on far oceans;

Of his tossing at anchor off islets forlorn 10

To the unsleeping waves' never-ending sea-motions;

Of bellying sails when a wind was born,

And the gurgling bubble of tropical water

Tinkled from under the ringed stem,

And thousands of miles was his ship from those wrought her 15

A petrel, a sea-bird, a white-winged gem,

Gallantly bent on measureless faring

Ere she came homing in sea-laden flight,

Circuitous, lingering, restlessly daring,

Coming to haven unlooked for, at night.’ 20

‘But the music is broken, the words half-forgotten,

The sunlight has faded, the moon is grown old,

The Elven ships foundered or weed-swathed and rotten,

The fire and the wonder of hearts is acold.

Who now can tell, and what harp can accompany 25

With melodies strange enough, rich enough tunes,

Pale with the magic of cavernous harmony,

Loud with shore-music of beaches and dunes,

How slender his boat; of what glimmering timber;

How her sails were all silvern and taper her mast, 30

And silver her throat with foam and her limber

Flanks as she swanlike floated past!

