---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P43.
date: 1984-01-01 00:43
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: ["I. THE TALE OF TINÚVIEL"]
page_num: 43
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Turgon King of Gondolin was the most glorious of these, for a while the most mighty and the longest free was Thingol of the Woods.
</p>

Now in the after-days of Sunshine and Moonsheen still dwelt Thingol in Artanor and ruled a numerous and hardy folk drawn from all the tribes of ancient Elfinesse - for neither he nor his people went to the dread Battle of Unnumbered Tears - a matter which toucheth not this tale. Yet was his lordship greatly increased after that most bitter field by fugitives seeking a leader and a home. Hidden was his dwelling thereafter from the vision and knowledge of Melko by the cunning magics of Melian the fay, and she wove spells about all the paths that led thereto, so that none but the children of the Eldalië might tread them without straying. Thus was the king guarded against all evils save treachery alone; his halls were builded in a deep cavern, vaulted immeasurable, that knew no other entrance than a rocky door, mighty, pillared with stone, and shadowed by the loftiest and most ancient trees in all the shaggy forests of Artanor. A great stream was there that fared a dark and silent course in the deep woods, and this flowed wide and swift before that doorway, so that all who would enter that portal must first cross a bridge hung by the Noldoli of Thingol's service across that water - and narrow it was and strongly guarded. In no wise ill were those forest lands, although not utterly distant were the Iron Mountains and black Hisilómë beyond them where dwelt the strange race of Men, and thrall-Noldoli laboured, and few free-Eldar went.

Two children had Thingol then, Dairon and Tinúviel . . .

(10) ‘her mother was a fay, a child of Lórien’ for manuscript ‘her<BR>mother was a fay, a daughter of the Gods'.

(11) ‘Now Beren was a Gnome, son of Egnor the forester’ as in manuscript; but <I>Egnor</I> changed to <I>Barahir</I>. This however was a much later and as it were casual change; Beren's father was still Egnor in 1925. \*

(11) Manuscript version ‘and all the Elves of the woodland thought of the Gnomes of Dor Lómin as treacherous creatures, cruel and faithless’ is omitted in the typescript.

(13) <I>Angband</I> for manuscript <I>Angamandi</I>, and throughout.

