---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P287.
date: 1984-01-01 04:47
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 287
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the ‘great battle between Men at the Heath of the Sky-roof (now the Withered Heath), about a league from Tavrobel’ (end of citation (5)). This is a very hastily pencilled and exceedingly difficult text titled <I>Epilogue. </I>It begins with a short prefatory note:
</p>

<B>(8)   </B>Eriol flees with the fading Elves from the Battle of the High Heath<BR>(Ladwen-na-Dhaideloth) and crosses the Gruir and the Afros.

The last words of the book of Tales. Written by Eriol at Tavrobel<BR>before he sealed the book.

This represents the development mentioned as desirable in (5), that Eriol should ‘himself see the last things and finish the book’; but an isolated note in C shows my father still uncertain about this even after the <I>Epilogue </I>was in being: ‘Prologue by the writer of Tavrobel <I>[i.e., such a Prologue is needed] </I>telling how he found Eriol's writings and put them together. His epilogue after the battle of Ladwen Daideloth is written.’

The rivers Gruir and Afros appear also in the passage about the battle at the end of (5). Since it is said there that the Heath was about a league from Tavrobel, the two rivers are clearly those referred to in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon: </I>‘the Tower of Tavrobel beside the rivers' (I.174, and see 1.196 note 2<I>). </I>In scattered notes the battle is also called ‘the Battle of the Heaven Roof and ‘the Battle of Dor-na-Dhaideloth’.<SUP>10</SUP>

I give now the text of the <I>Epilogue</I>:

And now is the end of the fair times come very nigh, and behold, all the beauty that yet was on earth - fragments of the unimagined loveliness of Valinor whence came the folk of the Elves long long ago -now goeth it all up in smoke. Here be a few tales, memories ill-told, of all that magic and that wonder twixt here and Eldamar of which I have become acquaint more than any mortal man since first my wandering footsteps came to this sad isle.

Of that last battle of the upland heath whose roof is the wide sky -nor was there any other place beneath the blue folds of Manwë's robe so nigh the heavens or so broadly and so well encanopied - what grievous things I saw I have told.

Already fade the Elves in sorrow and the Faring Forth has come to ruin, and Ilúvatar knoweth alone if ever now the Trees shall be relit while the world may last. Behold, I stole by evening from the ruined heath, and my way fled winding down the valley of the Brook of Glass, but the setting of the Sun was blackened with the reek of fires, and the waters of the stream were fouled with the war of men and grime of strife. Then was my heart bitter to see the bones of the good earth laid bare with winds where the destroying hands of men had torn the heather and the fern and burnt them to make sacrifice to Melko and to lust of ruin; and the thronging places of the bees that all day hummed among the whins and whortlebushes long ago bearing rich honey down

