---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P284.
date: 1984-01-01 04:44
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 284
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
On the page opposite the passage about the Battle of Rôs is written:
</p>

A great battle between Men at the Heath of the Sky-roof (now the Withered Heath), about a league from Tavrobel. The Elves and the Children flee over the Gruir and the Afros.

‘Even now do they approach and our great tale comes to its ending.’<BR>The book found in the ruins of the house of a hundred chimneys.

That Gilfanon was the oldest of the Elves of Tol Eressëa, though Meril held the title of Lady of the Isle, is said also in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> (I.175): but what is most notable is that Gilfanon (not Ailios, teller of the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring,</I> whom Gilfanon replaced, see I.197 note 19 and 229ff.) appears in this outline, which must therefore be late in the period of the composition of the <I>Lost Tales</I>.

Also noteworthy are the references to Eriol's drinking <I>limpë</I> at Gilfanon's ‘house of a hundred chimneys'. In <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> (I.17) Lindo told Eriol that he could not give him <I>limpë</I> to drink:

Turinqi only may give it to those not of the Eldar race, and those that drink must dwell always with the Eldar of the Island until such time as they fare forth to find the lost families of the kindred.

Meril-i-Turinqi herself, when Eriol besought her for a drink of <I>limpë,</I> was severe (I.98):

If you drink this drink . . . even at the Faring Forth, should Eldar and Men fall into war at the last, still must you stand by us against the children of your kith and kin, but until then never may you fare away home though longings gnaw you . . .

In the text described in I.229ff. Eriol bemoans to Lindo the refusal to grant him his desire, and Lindo, while warning him against ‘thinking to overpass the bounds that Ilúvatar hath set’, tells him that Meril has not irrevocably refused him. In a note to this text my father wrote:’. . .Eriol fares to Tavrobel - after Tavrobel he drinks of <I>limpë.’</I>

The statement in this passage of outline C that Eriol ‘in his last days is consumed with longing for the black cliffs of his shores, even as Meril said’ clearly refers to the passage in <I>The Chaining of Melko</I> from which I have cited above:

On a day of autumn will come the winds and a driven gull, maybe, will wail overhead, and lo! you will be filled with desire, remembering the black coasts of your home. (I.96).

Lindo's reference, in the passage from <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> cited

