---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P142.
date: 1984-01-01 02:22
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 142
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
westward to the Shining Isles. There, said they, do the Gods dwell, and they called them the Great Folk of the West, and thought they dwelt on firelit islands in the sea.’
</p>

(v)    <I>Túrin's age</I>

According to the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>, when Túrin left Mavwin he was seven years old, and it was after he had dwelt among the woodland Elves for seven years that all tidings from his home ceased (p. 74); in the <I>Narn</I> the corresponding years are eight and nine, and Túrin was seventeen, not fourteen, when ‘his grief was renewed’ (pp. 68, 76-7). It was exactly twelve years to the day of his departure from Mavwin when he slew Orgof and fled from Artanor (p. 75), when he was nineteen; in <I>the Narn</I> (p. 79) it was likewise twelve years since he left Hithlum when he hunted Saeros to his death, but he was twenty.

‘The tale tells not the number of days that Turambar sojourned with the Rodothlim but these were very many, and during that time Nienóri grew to the threshold of womanhood’ (pp. 91-2). Nienóri was seven years younger than Túrin: she was twelve when he fled from Artanor <I>(ibid.</I>). He cannot then have dwelt among the Rodothlim for more than (say) five or six years; and it is said that when he was chosen chieftain of the Woodmen he possessed ‘wisdom great beyond his years'.

Bethos, chieftain of the Woodmen before Túrin, ‘had fought <I>though then but a boy</I> in the Battle of Unnumbered Tears' (p. 101), but he was killed in a foray, since <I>‘despite his years</I> he still rode abroad’. But it is impossible to relate Bethos’ span (from ‘a boy’ at the Battle of Unnumbered Tears to his death on a foray at an age sufficiently ripe to be remarked on) to Túrin's; for the events after the destruction of the Rodothlim, culminating in Túrin's rescue of Níniel after her first encounter with Glorund, cannot cover any great length of time. What is clear and certain is that in the old story Túrin died when still a very young man. According to the precise dating provided in much later writing, he was 35 years old at his death.

(vi)    <I>The stature of Elves and Men</I>

The Elves are conceived to be of slighter build and stature than Men: so Beleg ‘was of great stature and girth <I>as such was among that folk’</I> (p. 73), and Túrin ‘was a Man and of greater stature than they’, i.e. Beleg and Flinding (p. 80) - this sentence being an emendation from ‘he was a Man of great size’ (note 8). See on this matter I.32, 235.

(vii)    <I>Winged Dragons</I>

At the end of <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 252) Morgoth ‘loosed upon his foes the last desperate assault that he had prepared, and out of the pits of Angband there issued the winged dragons, that had not before been

