---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P114.
date: 1984-01-01 01:54
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 114
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
before the doors of the cave that was once the abode of Galweg, and he cried: “What will ye with me, O outlaws of the hills?” But Úrin answered: “We come to take what is not thine.” Then said that dwarf, and his name was Mîm: ”O Úrin, little did I think to see thee, a lord of Men, with such a rabble. Hearken now to the words of Mîm the fatherless, and depart, touching not this gold no more than were it venomous fires. For has not Glorund lain long years upon it, and the evil of the drakes of Melko is on it, and no good can it bring to Man or Elf, but I, only I, can ward it, Mîm the dwarf, and by many a dark spell have I bound it to myself.” Then Úrin wavered, but his men were wroth at that, so that he bid them seize it all, and Mîm stood by and watched, and he broke forth into terrible and evil curses. Thereat did Úrin smite him, saying: “We came but to take what was not thine - now for thy evil words we will take what is thine as well, even thy life.”
</p>

But Mîm dying said unto Úrin: “Now Elves and Men shall rue this deed, and because of the death of Mîm the dwarf shall death follow this gold so long as it remain on Earth, and a like fate shall every part and portion share with the whole. ” And Úrin shuddered, but his folk laughed.

Now Úrin caused his followers to bear this gold to the halls of Tinwelint, and they murmured at that, but he said: “Are ye become as the drakes of Melko, that would lie and wallow in gold and seek no other joy? A sweeter life shall ye have in the court of that king of greed, an ye bear such treasury to him, than all the gold of Valinor can get you in the empty woods.”

Now his heart was bitter against Tinwelint, and he desired to have a vengeance on him, as may be seen. So great was that hoard that great though Úrin's company might be scarce could they bear it to the caves of Tinwelint the king, and some 'tis said was left behind and some was lost upon the way, and evil has followed its finders for ever.

Yet in the end that laden host came to the bridge before the doors<SUB>;</SUB> and being asked by the guards Úrin said: “Say to the king that Úrin the Steadfast is come bearing gifts,” and this was done. Then Úrin let bear all that magnificence before the king, but it was hidden in sacks or shut in boxes of rough wood; and Tinwelint greeted Úrin with joy and with amaze and bid” him thrice welcome, and he and all his court arose in honour of that lord of Men; but Úrin's heart was blind by reason of his tormented years and of the lies of Melko, and he said: “Nay, O King, I do not desire to hear such words - but say only, where is Mavwin my wife, and knowest

