---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P69.
date: 1984-01-01 01:09
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 69
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The <I>Tale of Turambar,</I> like that of <I>Tinúviel,</I> is a manuscript written in ink over a wholly erased original in pencil. But it seems certain that the <I>extant</I> form of <I>Turambar</I> preceded the <I>extant</I> form of <I>Tinúviel.</I> This can be deduced in more ways than one, but the order of composition is clearly exemplified in the forms of the name of the King of the Woodland Elves (Thingol). Throughout the manuscript of <I>Turambar</I> he was originally <I>Tintoglin</I> (and this appears also in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves,</I> where it was changed to <I>Tinwelint,</I> I. 115, 131). A note on the manuscript at the beginning of the tale says: ‘Tintoglin's name must be altered throughout to <I>Ellon</I> or <I>Tinthellon =</I> Q. <I>Ellu’,</I> but the note was struck out, and all through the tale <I>Tintoglin</I> was in fact changed to <I>Tinwelint</I>.
</p>

Now in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> the king's name was first given as <I>Ellu</I> (or <I>Tinto Ellu),</I> and once as <I>Tinthellon</I> (pp. 50-1); subsequently it was changed throughout to <I>Tinwelint.</I> It is clear that the direction to change <I>Tintoglin</I> to <I>‘Ellon</I> or <I>Tinthellon = Q. Ellu’</I> belongs to the time when the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> was being, or had been, rewritten, and that the extant <I>Tale of Turambar already</I> existed.

There is also the fact that the rewritten <I>Tinúviel</I> was followed, at the same time of composition, by the first form of the ‘interlude’ in which Gilfanon appears (see I.203), whereas at the beginning of <I>Turambar</I> there is a reference to Ailios (who was replaced by Gilfanon) concluding the previous tale. On the different arrangement of the tale-telling at this point that my father subsequently introduced but failed to carry through see I.229-30. According to the earlier arrangement, Ailios told his tale on the first night of the feast of Turuhalmë or the Logdrawing, and Eltas followed with the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> on the second.

There is evidence that the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> was in existence at any rate by the middle of 1919. Humphrey Carpenter discovered a passage, written on a scrap of proof for the Oxford English Dictionary, in an early alphabet of my father's devising; and transliterating it he found it to be from this tale, not far from the beginning. He has told me that my father was using this version of the ‘Alphabet of Rúmil’ about June 1919 (see <I>Biography,</I> p. 100).

When then Ailios had spoken his fill the time for the lighting of candles was at hand, and so came the first day of Turuhalmë to an

