---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P207.
date: 1984-01-01 03:27
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 207
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
gorge, tangled bushes, a cave-mouth - but the river is certainly Sirion (see the passage at the end of the tale, p. 195, where the exiles come back to the entrance), and the entrance to the secret way is in one of the steep river banks, quite unlike the description of the Dry River whose ancient bed was itself the secret way (later <I>Tuor</I> pp. 43-4). The long tunnel which Tuor and Voronwë traverse in the tale leads them at length not only to the Guard but also to sunlight, and they are ‘at the foot of steep hills' and can see the city: in other words there is a simple conception of a plain, a ring-wall of mountains, and a tunnel through them leading to the outer world. In the later <I>Tuor the</I> approach to the city is much stranger: for the tunnel of the Guard leads to the ravine of Orfalch Echor, a great rift from top to bottom of the Encircling Mountains (‘sheer as if axe-cloven’, p. 46), up which the road climbed through the successive gates until it came to the Seventh Gate, barring the rift at the top. Only when this last gate was opened and Tuor passed through was he able to see Gondolin; and we must suppose (though the narrative does not reach this point) that the travellers had to descend again from the Seventh Gate in order to reach the plain.
</p>

It is notable that Tuor and Voronwë are received by the Guard without any of the suspicion and menace that greeted them in the later story (p. 45).

(iii)     <I>Tuor in Gondolin</I> (pp. 159-64)<BR>With this section of the narrative compare <I>The Silmarillion</I>, p.  126:

Behind the circle of the mountains the people of Turgon grew and throve, and they put forth their skill in labour unceasing, so that Gondolin upon Amon Gwareth became fair indeed and fit to compare even with Elven Tirion beyond the sea. High and white were its walls, and smooth its stairs, and tall and strong was the Tower of the King. There shining fountains played, and in the courts of Turgon stood images of the Trees of old, which Turgon himself wrought with elven-craft; and the Tree which he made of gold was named Glingal, and the Tree whose flowers he made of silver was named Belthil.

The image of Gondolin was enduring, and it reappears in the glimpses given in notes for the continuation of the later <I>Tuor (Unfinished Tales p</I>. 56): ‘the stairs up to its high platform, and its great gate ... the Place of the Fountain, the King's tower on a pillared arcade, the King's house...’ Indeed the only real difference that emerges from the original account concerns the Trees of Gondolin, which in the former were unfading, ‘shoots of old from the glorious Trees of Valinor’, but in <I>The Silmarillion</I> were images made of the precious metals. On the Trees of Gondolin see the entries <I>Bansil</I> and <I>Glingol</I> from the Name-list, given below pp. 214-16. The gift by the Gods of these ‘shoots' (which ‘blossomed

