---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P251.
date: 1984-01-01 04:11
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 251
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
‘the Crafty’. The names Amrod and Amras in <I>The Silmarillion</I>were a late change; for long these two sons of Fëanor were Damrod (as here) and Díriel (here Dinithel or Durithel, see <I>Changes made to Names</I>,
</p>

p. 245).

Here also appear Dior the Fair, also called Ausir the Wealthy, and his daughter Elwing; his son Auredhir early disappeared in the development of the legends. But Dior ruled in ‘the southern vales' (p. 241) of Hisilómë, not in Artanor, and there is no suggestion of any renewal of Tinwelint's kingdom after his death, in contrast to what was told later (<I>The Silmarillion</I>p. 236); moreover the Fëanorians, as noted above, dwelt also in Hisilómë - and how all this is to be related to what is said elsewhere of the inhabitants of that region I am unable to say: cf. the <I>Tale of Tinúviel, p</I>.10: ‘Hisilómë where dwelt Men, and thrall-Noldoli laboured, and few free-Eldar went.’

A very curious statement is made in this concluding part of the tale, that ‘those were days of happiness in the vales of Hithlum, for there was peace with Melko and the Dwarves who had but one thought as they plotted against Gondolin’ (p. 241). Presumably ‘peace with Melko’ means no more than that Melko had averted his attention from those lands; but nowhere else is there any reference to the Dwarves' plotting against Gondolin.

In the typescript version of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>(p. 43) it is said that if Turgon King of Gondolin was the most glorious of the kings of the Elves who defied Melko, ‘for a while the most mighty <I>and the longest free</I>was Thingol of the Woods'. The most natural interpretation of this expression is surely that Gondolin fell before Artanor; whereas in <I>The Silmarillion (p</I>.240) ‘Tidings were brought by Thorondor Lord of Eagles of the fall of Nargothrond, and after of the slaying of Thingol and of Dior his heir, and of the ruin of Doriath; but Turgon shut his ear to word of the woes without.’ In the present tale we see the same chronology, in that many of the Elves who followed Beren went after his departure to Gondolin, ‘the rumour of whose growing power and glory ran in secret whispers among all the Elves' (p. 240), though here the destruction of Gondolin is said to have taken place on the very day that Dior was attacked by the Sons of Fëanor (p. 242). To evade the discrepancy therefore we must interpret the passage in the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>to mean that Thingol remained free for a longer period of years than did Turgon, irrespective of the dates of their downfalls.

Lastly, the statements that Cûm an-Idrisaith, the Mound of Avarice, ‘stands there still in Artanor’ (p. 223), and that the waters of Aros still flow above the drowned hoard (p. 238), are noteworthy as indications that nothing analogous to the Drowning of Beleriand was present in the original conception.

