---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P140.
date: 1984-01-01 02:20
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 140
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
I cannot explain the insertion of ‘Damrod the Gnome’ against ‘Egnor’ in the rejected passage - possibly it was no more than a passing idea, to give the name <I>Damrod </I>to Beren's father.
</p>

It may be noticed here that both the rejected and the replacement passages make it very clear that the events of the story of Beren and Tinúviel took place <I>before </I>the Battle of Unnumbered Tears; see pp. 65-6.

(ii)    <I>The Battle of Tasarinan</I>

It is said at the beginning of the present tale (p. 70) that it ‘tells of very ancient days of that folk [Men] before the Battle of Tasarinan when first Men entered the dark vales of Hisilómë’.

On the face of it this offers an extreme contradiction, since it is said many times that Men were shut in Hisilómë at the time of the Battle of Unnumbered Tears, and the <I>Tale of Turambar </I>takes place - must take place - after that battle. The solution lies, however, in an ambiguity in the sentence just cited. My father did not mean that this was a tale of Men in ancient days of that folk before they entered Hisilómë; he meant ‘this is a tale of the ancient days <I>when </I>Men first entered Hisilómë — long before the Battle of Tasarinan’.

<I>Tasarinan </I>is the Land of Willows, <I>Nan-tathren </I>in <I>The Silmarillion</I>; the early word-lists or dictionaries give the ‘Elvish’ form <I>tasarin </I>‘willow’ and the Gnomish <I>tathrin.\* </I>The Battle of Tasarinan took place long after, in the course of the great expedition from Valinor for the release of the enslaved Noldoli in the Great Lands. See pp. 219-20.

(iii)    <I>The geography of the Tale of Turambar</I>

The passage describing the route of the Orcs who captured Túrin (p. 77) seems to give further support to the idea that ‘the mountains fencing Hisilómë from the Lands Beyond were continuous with those above Angband’ (p. 62); for it is said here that the Orcs ‘followed ever the line of dark hills toward those regions where they rise high and gloomy and their heads are shrouded in black vapours', and <I>‘there </I>are they called Angorodin or the Iron Mountains, for beneath the roots of their northernmost fastnesses lies Angband’.

The site of the caves of the Rodothlim, agreeing well with what is said later of Nargothrond, has been discussed already (p. 123), as has the topography of the Silver Bowl and the ravine in which Turambar slew Glorund, in relation to the later Teiglin, Celebros, and Nen Girith (pp. 132-3). There are in addition some indications in the tale of how the caves of the Rodothlim related to Tinwelint's kingdom and to the land

