---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P68.
date: 1984-01-01 01:08
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 68
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Eruman’. <I>Gilim</I> in the Gnomish dictionary means ‘winter’ (see 1.260, <I>entry Melko</I>), which does not seem particularly appropriate: though a jotting, very difficult to read, in the little notebook used for memoranda in connection with the <I>Lost Tales</I> (see 1. 171) seems to say that Nan was a ‘giant of summer of the South', and that he was like an elm.
</p>

The <I>Indravangs (Indrafangs</I> in the typescript) are the ‘Longbeards’; this is said in the Gnomish dictionary to be ‘a special name of the Nauglath or Dwarves' (see further the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I>, p. 247).

<I>Karkaras (Carcaras</I> in the typescript) ‘Knife-fang’ is named in the spell since he was originally conceived as the ‘father of wolves, who guarded the gates of Angamandi in those days <I>and long had done so’ (p</I>. 21). In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 180) he has a different history: chosen by Morgoth ‘from among the whelps of the race of Draugluin’ and reared to be the death of Huan, he was set before the gates of Angband in that very time. In <I>The Silmarillion (ibid.</I>) Carcharoth is rendered ‘the Red Maw’, and this expression is used in the text of the tale (p. 34): ‘both hand and jewel Karkaras bit off and took into his red maw’.

<I>Glorund</I> is the name of the dragon in the <I>Tale of Turambar (Glaurung</I> in <I>The Silmarillion</I>).

In the tale of <I>The Chaining of Melko</I> there is no suggestion that Tulkas had any part in the making of the chain (there in the form <I>Angaino):</I> I. 100.

(iv)    <I>The influence of the Valar</I>

There is frequent suggestion that the Valar in some way exercised a direct influence over the minds and hearts of the distant Elves in the Great Lands. Thus it is said (p. 15) that the Valar must have inspired Beren's ingenious speech to Melko, and while this may be no more than a ‘rhetorical’ flourish, it is clear that Tinúviel's dream of Beren is meant to be accepted as ‘a dream of the Valar’ (p. 19). Again, ‘the Valar set a new hope in her heart’ (p. 47); and later in Vëannë's tale the Valar are seen as active ‘fates', guiding the destinies of the characters - so the Valar ‘brought’ Huan to find Beren and Tinúviel in Nan Dumgorthin (p. 35), and Tinúviel says to Tinwelint that ‘the Valar alone saved Beren from a bitter death’ (p. 37).

