---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P56.
date: 1984-01-01 00:56
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 56
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
somewhat differently, for in the manuscript Tevildo and his companion can flee up great trees (p. 28), whereas in the typescript nothing grew in the Withered Dale (where Huan was to lie feigning sick) save ‘low bushes of scanty leaves' (p. 48).
</p>

In the remainder of the story the congruence between early and late forms is far closer. The narrative structure in the tale may be summarised thus:

- Beren is attired for disguise in the fell of the dead cat Oikeroi.

- He and Tinúviel journey together to Angamandi.

- Tinúviel lays a spell of sleep on Karkaras the wolf-ward of Angamandi.

- They enter Angamandi, Beren slinks in his beast-shape beneath the seat of Melko, and Tinúviel dances before Melko.

- All the host of Angamandi and finally Melko himself are cast into sleep, and Melko's iron crown rolls from his head.

- Tinúviel rouses Beren, who cuts a Silmaril from the crown, and the blade snaps.

- The sleepers stir, and Beren and Tinúviel flee back to the gates, but find Karkaras awake again.

- Karkaras bites off Beren's outthrust hand holding the Silmaril.

- Karkaras becomes mad with the pain of the Silmaril in his belly, for the Silmaril is a holy thing and sears evil flesh.

- Karkaras goes raging south to Artanor.

- Beren and Tinúviel return to Artanor; they go before Tinwelint and Beren declares that a Silmaril is in his hand.

- The hunting of the wolf takes place, and Mablung the Heavy-handed is one of the hunters.

- Beren is slain by Karkaras, and is borne back to the cavern of Tinwelint on a bier of boughs; dying he gives the Silmaril to Tinwelint.

- Tinúviel follows Beren to Mandos, and Mandos permits them to return into the world.

Changing the catskin of Oikeroi to the wolfskin of Draugluin, and altering some other names, this would do tolerably well as a precis of the story in <I>The Silmarillion!</I> But of course it is devised as a summary of similarities. There are major differences as well as a host of minor ones that do not appear in it.

Again, most important is the absence of ‘the Nargothrond Element’. When this combined with the Beren legend it introduced Felagund as Beren's companion, Lúthien's imprisonment in Nargothrond by Celegorm and Curufin, her escape with Huan the hound of Celegorm, and the attack on Beren and Lúthien as they returned from Tol-in-Gaurhoth by Celegorm and Curufin, now fleeing from Nargothrond <I>(The Silmarillion</I> pp. 173-4, 176-8).

