---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P190.
date: 1984-01-01 03:10
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 190
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and they were very weary.<SUP>35</SUP> By now the sun hung well above a saddle in the eastern hills, and she was very red and great; and the mists nigh them were lifted, but the ruins of Gondolin were utterly hidden as in a cloud. Behold then at the clearing of the airs they saw, but a few furlongs off, a knot of men that fled on foot, and these were pursued by a strange cavalry, for on great wolves rode Orcs, as they thought, brandishing spears. Then said Tuor: ”Lo! there is Eärendel my son; behold, his face shineth as a star in the waste,<SUP>36</SUP> and my men of the Wing are about him, and they are in sore straits.” Forthwith he chose fifty of the men that were least weary, and leaving the main company to follow he fared over the plain with that troop as swiftly as they had strength left. Coming now to carry of voice Tuor shouted to the men about Eärendel to stand and flee not, for the wolfriders were scattering them and slaying them piecemeal, and the child was upon the shoulders of one Hendor, a house-carle of Idril's, and he seemed like to be left with his burden. Then they stood back to back and Hendor and Eärendel amidmost; but Tuor soon came up, though all his troop were breathless.
</p>

Of the wolfriders there were a score, and of the men that were about Eärendel but six living; therefore had Tuor opened his men into a crescent of but one rank, and hoped so to envelop the riders, lest any escaping bring tidings to the main foe and draw ruin upon the exiles. In this he succeeded, so that only two escaped, and therewithal wounded and without their beasts, wherefore were their tidings brought too late to the city.

Glad was Eärendel to greet Tuor, and Tuor most fain of his child; but said Eärendel: ”I am thirsty, father, for I have run far-nor had Hendor need to bear me.” Thereto his father said nought, having no water, and thinking of the need of all that company that he guided; but Eärendel said again: ” ‘Twas good to see Meglin die so, for he would set arms about my mother - and I liked him not; but I would travel in no tunnels for all Melko's wolfriders.” Then Tuor smiled and set him upon his shoulders. Soon after this the main company came up, and Tuor gave Eärendel to his mother who was in a great joy; but Eärendel would not be borne in her arms, for he said: “Mother Idril, thou art weary, and warriors in mail ride not among the Gondothlim, save it be old Salgant!” and his mother laughed amid her sorrow; but Eärendel said: “Nay, where is Salgant?” - for Salgant had told him quaint tales or played drolleries with him at times, and Eärendel had much laughter of the old Gnome in those days when he came many a day

