---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P149.
date: 1984-01-01 02:29
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 149
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
for which, seeing they passed away ere ever the rest of the Eldar came from Kôr, the Elves have no true names. Know then,’ said he, ‘that Tuor
</p>

This ‘preface’ thus connects to the opening of the tale. There here appears, in the second version, the name <I>Eldarissa</I> for the language of the <I>Eldar</I> or <I>Elves</I>, as opposed to <I>Noldorissa</I> (a term found in the Name-list); on the distinction involved see I.50—1. With Littleheart's words here compare what Rúmil said to Eriol about him (I.48):

‘“Tongues and speeches,” they will say, “one is enough for me”-and thus said Littleheart the Gong-warden once upon a time: “Gnome-speech,” said he, “is enough for me - did not that one Earendel and Tuor and Bronweg my father (that mincingly ye miscall Voronwë) speak it and no other?” Yet he had to learn the Elfin in the end, or be doomed either to silence or to leave Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva . . .’

After these lengthy preliminaries I give the text of the Tale.

<I>Tuor and the Exiles of Gondolin<BR>(which bringeth in the great tale of Earendel</I>)

Then said Littleheart son of Bronweg: ‘Know then that Tuor was a man who dwelt in very ancient days in that land of the North called Dor Lómin or the Land of Shadows, and of the Eldar the Noldoli know it best.

Now the folk whence Tuor came wandered the forests and fells and knew not and sang not of the sea; but Tuor dwelt not with them, and lived alone about that lake called Mithrim, now hunting in its woods, now making music beside its shores on his rugged harp of wood and the sinews of bears. Now many hearing of the power of his rough songs came from near and far to hearken to his harping, but Tuor left his singing and departed to lonely places. Here he learnt many strange things and got knowledge of the wandering Noldoli, who taught him much of their speech and lore; but he was not fated to dwell for ever in those woods.

Thereafter 'tis said that magic and destiny led him on a day to a cavernous opening down which a hidden river flowed from Mithrim. And Tuor entered that cavern seeking to learn its secret, but the waters of Mithrim drove him forward into the heart of the

