---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P245.
date: 1984-01-01 04:05
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 245
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>(i)Guilwarthon</I> In the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>, p. 41, the form is <I>i-Cuilwarthon</I>. At the occurrence on p. 240 the ending of the name does not look like <I>-on</I>, but as I cannot say what it is I give <I>Guilwarthon</I> in the text.
</p>

<I>Dinithel</I> could also be read as <I>Durithel</I> (p. 241). This name was written in later in ink over an earlier name in pencil now scarcely legible, though clearly the same as that beginning <I>Mat</I>.... which appears for this son of Fëanor subsequently (see note 21).

Commentary on<BR><I>The Tale of the Nauglafring</I>

In this commentary I shall not compare in detail the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> with the story told in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (Chapter 22, <I>Of the Ruin of Doriath</I>). The stories are profoundly different in essential features - above all, in the reduction of the treasure brought by Húrin from Nargothrond to a single object, the Necklace of the Dwarves, which had long been in existence (though not, of course, containing the Silmaril); while the whole history of the relation between Thingol and the Dwarves is changed. My father never again wrote any part of this story on a remotely comparable scale, and the formation of the published text was here of the utmost difficulty; I hope later to give an account of it.

While it is often difficult to differentiate what my father omitted in his more concise versions (in order to keep them concise) from what he rejected, it seems clear that a large part of the elaborate narrative of the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> was early abandoned. In subsequent writing the story of the fighting between Úrin's band and Tinwelint's Elves disappeared, and there is no trace afterwards of Ufedhin or the other Gnomes that lived among the Dwarves, of the story that the Dwarves took half the unwrought gold (‘the king's loan’) away to Nogrod to make precious objects from it, of the keeping of Ufedhin hostage, of Tinwelint's refusal to let the Dwarves depart, of their outrageous demands, of their scourging and their insulting payment.

We meet here again the strong emphasis on Tinwelint's love of treasure and lack of it, in contrast to the later conception of his vast wealth (see my remarks, pp. 128-9). The Silmaril is kept in a wooden casket (p. 225), Tinwelint has no crown but a wreath of scarlet leaves (p. 227), and he is far less richly clad and accoutred than ‘the wayfarer in his halls' (Ufedhin). This is very well in itself - the Woodland Elf corrupted by the lure of golden splendour, but it need not be remarked again how strangely at variance is this picture with that of Thingol Lord of Beleriand, who had a vast treasury in his marvellous underground realm of Menegroth, the Thousand Caves - itself largely contrived by the Dwarves of Belegost in the distant past <I>(The Silmarillion</I> pp. 92-3), and who most certainly did not need the aid of Dwarves at this time to make

