---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P291.
date: 1984-01-01 04:51
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 291
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
This book have I written using those writings that my father Wǽfre (whom the Gnomes named after the regions of his home Angol) did make in his sojourn in the holy isle in the days of the Elves; and much else have I added of those things which his eyes saw not afterward; yet are such things not yet to tell. For know
</p>

Here then the Golden Book was compiled from Eriol's writings by his son Heorrenda - in contrast to (5), where it was compiled by someone unnamed, and in contrast also to the <I>Epilogue</I> (8), where Eriol himself concluded and ‘sealed the book’.

As I have said earlier (I.24) <I>Angol</I> refers to the ancient homeland of the ‘English’ before their migration across the North Sea (for the etymology <I>of Angol/Eriol</I> ‘ironcliffs’ see I.24,252).

<B>(12) </B>There is also a genealogical table accompanying the outline (10) and altogether agreeing with it. The table is written out in two forms that are identical save in one point: for Beorn, brother of Eoh, in the one, there stands in the other <I>Hasen of Isenóra</I> (Old English: ‘iron shore’). But at the end of the table is introduced the cardinal fact of all these earliest materials concerning Eriol and Tol Eressëa: Hengest and Horsa, Eriol's sons by Cwén in Heligoland, and Heorrenda, his son by Naimi in Tol Eressëa, are bracketed together, and beneath their names is written:

conquered Íeg

(‘seo unwemmede Íeg’)

now called Englaland

and there dwell the Angolcynn or Engle.

<I>Íeg</I> is Old English, ‘isle’; <I>seo unwemmede Íeg</I> ‘the unstained isle’. I have mentioned before (I.25, footnote) a poem of my father's written at Étaples in June 1916 and called ‘The Lonely Isle’, addressed to England: this poem bears the Old English title <I>seo Unwemmede Íeg</I>.

<B>(13) </B>There follow in the notebook C some jottings that make precise identifications of places in Tol Eressëa with places in England.

First the name <I>Kortirion</I> is explained. The element <I>Kôr</I> is derived from an earlier <I>Qoră</I>, yet earlier <I>Guoră;</I> but from <I>Guoră</I> was also derived (i.e. in Gnomish) the form <I>Gwâr</I>. (This formulation agrees with that in the Gnomish dictionary, see I.257). Thus <I>Kôr</I> = <I>Gwâr</I>, and <I>Kortirion</I> = <I>\*Gwarmindon</I> (the asterisk implying a hypothetical, unrecorded form). The name that was actually used in Gnomish had the elements reversed, <I>Mindon-Gwar. (Mindon</I>, like <I>Tirion</I>, meant, and continued always to mean, ‘tower’. The meaning of <I>KôrlGwâr</I> is not given here, but both in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> (I.122) and in the Gnomish dictionary (I.257) the name is explained as referring to the <I>roundness</I> of the hill of Kôr.)

