---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P267.
date: 1984-01-01 04:27
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 267
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the subject the name was associated with an Elvish word <I>ea </I>‘eagle’ - see p. 265 on the name of Eärendel's first ship <I>Eärámë </I>‘Eaglepinion’. In the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin </I>this is made explicit: <I>‘Earendl [sic] </I>though belike it hath some kinship to the Elfin <I>ea </I>and <I>earen </I>“eagle” and “eyrie” (wherefore cometh to mind the passage of Cristhorn and the use of the sign of the Eagle by Idril [see p. 193]) is thought to be woven of that secret tongue of the Gondothlim [see p. 165].’
</p>

I give lastly four early poems of my father's in which Eärendel appears.

<I>Éalá Éarendel Engla Beorhtast</I>

There can be little doubt that, as Humphrey Carpenter supposes <I>(Biography </I>p. 71), this was the first poem on the subject of Eärendel that my father composed, and that it was written at Phoenix Farm, Gedling, Nottinghamshire, in September 1914.<SUP>10</SUP> It was to this poem that he was referring in the letter of 1967 just cited - ‘I wrote a “poem” upon Eärendel who launched his ship like a bright spark’: cf. line 5 ‘He launched his bark like a silver spark . . .’

There are some five different versions, each one incorporating emendations made in the predecessor, though only the first verse was substantially rewritten. The title was originally ‘The Voyage of Éarendel the Evening Star’, together with (as customarily) an Old English version of this: <I>Scipfæreld Earendeles Ǽfensteorran; </I>this was changed in a later copy to <I>Éalá Éarendel Engla Beorhtast </I>‘The Last Voyage of Eärendel’, and in still later copies the modern English name was removed. I give it here in the last version, the date of which cannot be determined, though the handwriting shows it to be substantially later than the original composition; together with all the divergent readings of the earliest extant version in footnotes.

Éarendel arose where the shadow flows

At Ocean's silent brim;<BR>Through the mouth of night as a ray of light

Where the shores are sheer and dim 4<BR>He launched his bark like a silver spark

From the last and lonely sand;<BR>Then on sunlit breath of day's fiery death

He sailed from’ Westerland. 8

