---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P348.
date: 1984-01-01 05:48
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 348
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<B>Tasarinan</B><I>See Nantathrin</I>.
</p>

<B>Taurfuin</B>See I.267 (<I>Tavari</I>) and I.253 (<I>Fui</I>).

<B>TeldQuing lion </B>NFG has an entry: ‘Cm <I>a Teld Quing lion</I> signifieth Gully of the Rainbow Roof, and is in the Eldar speech <I>Kiris Iluqingateldd</I>’; <I>a Teld Quing lion</I> was struck out and replaced by <I>Ilbranteloth</I>. Another entry reads: <I>‘Ilon</I> is the sky’; in GL <I>lion</I> (= Qenya <I>Ilu</I>) is the name of <I>Ilúvatar</I> (see I.255 (<I>Ilwë)). Teld</I> does not appear in GL, but related words as <I>telm</I> ‘roof are given (see I.267-8 (<I>Teleri));</I> and <I>cwing =</I> ‘a bow’. QL has <I>iluqinga</I> ‘rainbow’ (see I.256 (<I>Ilweran)</I>) and <I>telda</I> ‘having a roof (see I.268 (<I>Telimektar)</I>). For Cm, Aim see Cm <I>Ilbranteloth</I>.

<B>Tevildo, Tifil </B>For the etymology see I.268, to which can be added that the earlier Gnomish form <I>Tifil</I> (later <I>Tiberth</I>) is associated in GL with a noun <I>tîf</I> 'resentment, ill-feeling, bitterness’.

<I>Vardo Meoita</I> ‘Prince of Cats': for <I>Varda</I> see I.273 (<I>Varda</I>). QL gives <I>meoi</I> ‘cat’.

<I>Bridhon Miaugion</I> ‘Prince of Cats': <I>bridhon</I> ‘king, prince’, cf. <I>Bndhil</I>, Gnomish name of Varda (I.273). Nouns <I>miaug, miog</I> ‘tomcat’ and <I>miauli</I> ‘she-cat’ (changed to <I>miaulin</I>) are given in GL, where -the Prince of Cats is called <I>Tifil Miothon or Miaugion. Miaulë</I> was the name of Tevildo's cook (p. 28).

<B>Thorndor</B>See I.266 (<I>Sorontur</I>).

<B>Thornhoth</B>See <I>Glamhoth</I>.

<B>Thorn Sir</B>See I. 265 (<I>Sirion</I>).

<B>Tifanto</B>This name is clearly to be associated with the Gnomish words (<I>tif-, tifin</I>) given in I.268 (<I>Tinfang</I>).

<B>Tifil</B>See <I>Tevildo</I>.

<B>Tirin</B>See I.258 (<I>Kortirion</I>).

<B>Tôn a Gwedrin </B><I>Tôn</I> is a Gnomish word meaning ‘fire (on a hearth)’, related to <I>tan</I> and other words given under <I>Tanyasalpë</I> (I.266-7) i <I>Tôn a Gwedrin</I> ‘the Tale-fire’ in <I>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva</I>. Cf. <I>Tôn Sovriel</I> ‘the fire lake of Valinor’ (<I>sovriel</I> ‘purification’, <I>sovri</I> ‘cleansing’; <I>son</I> ‘pure, clean’, <I>soth</I> ‘bath’, <I>so-</I> ‘wash, clean, bathe’). <I>Gwedrin</I> belongs with <I>cwed-</I> (preterite <I>-cwenthi</I>) ‘say, tell’, <I>cweth</I> ‘word’, <I>cwent</I> ‘tale, saying’, <I>cwess</I> ‘saying, proverb’, <I>cwedri</I> ‘telling (of tales)’, <I>ugwedriol</I> ‘unspeakable, ineffable’. In QL under root QETE are <I>qet- (qentë</I>) ‘speak, talk’, <I>quent</I> ‘word’, <I>qentelë</I> ‘sentence’, <I>Eldaqet</I> = <I>Eldarissa</I>, etc. Cf. the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion</I>, entry <I>quen- (quet-</I>).

<B>Tumladin</B>For the first element, Gnomish <I>turn</I> Valley’, see I.269 (<I>Tombo</I>), and for the second, <I>ladin</I> ‘level, smooth’ see <I>Ladwen na Dhaideloth</I>.

<B>Turambar</B>For the first element see I.260 (<I>Meril-i-Turinqi</I>). QL gives <I>amarto, ambar</I> ‘Fate’, and also (root MRTR) <I>man</I> ‘a piece of luck’, <I>marto</I> ‘fortune, fate, lot’, <I>mart-</I> ‘it happens’ (impersonal). GL has

