---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P135.
date: 1984-01-01 02:15
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 135
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
(p. 101) foreboded her own death in that place, but in the changed story there is less reason for a foreknowledge of evil to come upon her there. But while the place was changed, the withering of the leaves remained, and the awe of the scene of their deaths, so that none would go to Cabed-en-Aras after, as they would not set foot on the grass above Silver Bowl.
</p>

The most remarkable feature of the earliest version of the story of Turambar and Níniel is surely that as my father first wrote it he did <I>not</I>say that she had conceived a child by him (note 25); and thus there is nothing in the old story corresponding to Glaurung's words to her: ‘But the worst of all his deeds thou shalt feel in thyself (<I>Narn</I>p. 138). The fact that above all accounts for Nienor's utter horror and despair was added to the tale later.

In concluding this long analysis of the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>proper the absence of place-names in the later part of it may be remarked. The dwelling of the Rodothlim is not named, nor the river that flowed past it; no name is given to the forest where the Woodmen dwelt, to their village, or even to the stream of such central importance at the end of the story (contrast Nargothrond, Narog, Tumhalad, Amon Ethir, Brethil, Amon Obel, Ephel Brandir, Teiglin, Celebros of the later narratives).

§ 2.   <I>The further narrative of Eltas<BR>(after the death of Túrin</I>)

My father struck out the greater part of this continuation, allowing it to stand only as far as the words ‘by reason of her great unhappiness’ on p. 113 (see note 31). From the brief passage that was retained it is seen that the story of Morwen's coming to the stone on Túrin's mound goes back to the beginning, though in the later story she met Húrin there (<I>The Silmarillion</I>,p. 229). The rejected part continues as follows:

Yet it is said also that when the doom of his folk was utterly fulfilled then was Úrin released by Melko, and bowed with age he fared back into the better lands. There did he gather some few to him, and they went and found the caverns of the Rothwarin <I>[earlier form for</I>Rodothlim, <I>see p</I>.119] empty, and none guarded them, and a mighty treasury lay there still for none had found it, in that the terror of the drake lived longer than he and none had ventured thither again. But Úrin let bear the gold even before Linwë [i.e. Tinwelint], and casting it before his feet bade him bitterly to take his vile reward, naming him a craven by whose faint heart had much evil fallen to his house that might never have been; and in this began a new estrangement between Elves and Men, for Linwë was wroth at Úrin's words and bid him begone, for said he: “Long did I foster Túrin thy son and forgave him

