---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P300.
date: 1984-01-01 05:00
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 300
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
One of the manuscripts of <I>The Song of Eriol</I>bears a later note: ‘Easington 1917-18’ (Easington on the estuary of the Humber, see Humphrey Carpenter, <I>Biography</I>,p. 97). It may be that the second part of <I>The Song of Eriol</I>was written at Easington and added to the first part (formerly the <I>Prelude</I>)already in existence.
</p>

Little can be derived from this poem of a strictly narrative nature, save the lineaments of the same tale: Eriol's father fell ‘on a field of blood’, when ‘wars of great kings . . . rolled over all the Great Lands', and his mother died ‘in a hungry siege’ (the same phrase is used in the <I>Link</I>to the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>,pp. 5-6); he himself was made a captive, but escaped, and came at last to the shores of the Western Sea (whence his mother's people had come).

The fact that the first part of <I>The Song of Eriol</I>is also found as the Prelude to a poem of which the subjects are Warwick and Oxford might make one suspect that the castle with a great tower overhanging a river in the story told by Eriol to Vëannë was once again Warwick. But I do not think that this is so. There remains in any case the objection that it would be difficult to accommodate the attack on it by men out of the Mountains of the East which the duke could see from his tower; but also I think it is plain that the original tripartite poem had been dissevered, and the <I>Prelude</I>given a new bearing: my father's ‘fathers' sires' became Eriol's ‘fathers' sires'. At the same time, certain powerful images were at once dominant and fluid, and the great tower of Eriol's home was indeed to become the tower of Kortirion or Warwick, when (as will be seen shortly) the structure of the story of the mariner was radically changed. And nothing could show more clearly than does the evolution of this poem the complex root from which the story rose.

Humphrey Carpenter, writing in his <I>Biography</I>of my father's life after he returned to Oxford in 1925, says (p. 169):

He made numerous revisions and recastings of the principal stories in the cycle, deciding to abandon the original sea-voyager ‘Eriol’ to whom the stories were told, and instead renaming him ‘Ælfwine’ or 'elf-friend'.

That <I>Eriol</I>was (for a time) displaced by <I>Ælfwine</I>is certain. But while it may well be that at the time of the texts now to be considered the name <I>Eriol</I>had actually been rejected, in the first version of ‘The Silmarillion’ proper, written in 1926, <I>Eriol</I>reappears, while in the earliest <I>Annals of Valinor</I>,written in the 193os, it is said that they were translated in Tol Eressëa ‘by Eriol of Leithien, that is Ælfwine of the Angelcynn’. On the other hand, at this earlier period it seems entirely justifiable on the evidence to treat the two names as indicative of different narrative projections - ‘the <I>Eriol</I>story’ and ‘the <I>Ælfwine</I>story’.

