---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P312.
date: 1984-01-01 05:12
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 312
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
that his mother and father were slain by ‘the sea-pirates', and from (20) that they were slain by ‘the fierce Men of the Sea’; from (16) that he was ‘driven by the Normans'. In (15) there is a mention of his meeting with ‘the Ancient Mariner’ during his voyages. In (16) he comes to ‘the harbour of the southern shore’ of Tol Eressëa; and in (17) he ‘awakens upon a sandy beach’ at low tide.
</p>

I come now to the narrative that finally emerged. It will be observed, perhaps with relief, that Ing, Ingwë, and the Ingwaiwar have totally disappeared.

<I>ÆLFWINE OF ENGLAND</I>

There are three versions of this short work. One is a plot-outline of less than 500 words, which for convenience of reference I shall call <I>Ælfwine A;</I>but the second is a much more substantial narrative bearing the title <I>Ælfwine of England</I>.This was written in 1920 or later: demon-strably not earlier, for my father used for it scraps of paper pinned together, and some of these are letters to him, all dated in February 1920.<SUP>18</SUP> The third text no doubt began as a fair copy in ink of the second, to which it is indeed very close at first, but became as it proceeded a complete rewriting at several points, with the introduction of much new matter, and it was further emended after it had been completed. It bears no title in the manuscript, but must obviously be called <I>Ælfwine of England</I>likewise.

For convenience I shall refer to the first fully-written version as <I>Ælfwine I</I>and to its rewriting as <I>Ælfwine II</I>.The relation of <I>Ælfwine A</I>to these is hard to determine, since it agrees in some respects with the one and in some with the other. It is obvious that my father had <I>Ælfwine I</I>in front of him when he wrote <I>Ælfwine II</I>,but it seems likely that he drew on <I>Ælfwine A</I>at the same time.

I give here the full text of <I>Ælfwine II</I>in its final form, with all noteworthy emendations and all important differences from the other texts in the notes (differences in names, and changes to names, are listed separately).

There was a land called England, and it was an island of the West, and before it was broken in the warfare of the Gods it was westernmost of all the Northern lands, and looked upon the Great Sea that Men of old called Gársecg;<SUP>19</SUP> but that part that was broken was called Ireland and many names besides, and its dwellers come not into these tales.

All that land the Elves named Lúthien<SUP>20</SUP> and do so yet. In Lúthien alone dwelt still the most part of the Fading Companies, the Holy Fairies that have not yet sailed away from the world,

