---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P86.
date: 1984-01-01 01:26
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 86
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
her arms towards Túrin, but Túrin was held by the spell of the drake, for that beast had a foul magic in his glance, as have many others of his kind, and he turned the sinews of Túrin as it were to stone, for his eye held Túrin's eye so that his will died, and he could not stir of his own purpose, yet might he see and hear.
</p>

Then did Glorund taunt Túrin nigh to madness, saying that lo! he had cast away his sword nor had the heart to strike a blow for his friends — now Túrin's sword lay at his feet whither it had slipped from his unnerved grasp. Great was the agony of Túrin's heart thereat, and the Orcs laughed at him, and of the captives some cried bitterly against him. Even now did the Orcs begin to drive away that host of thralls, and his heart broke at the sight, yet he moved not; and the pale face of Failivrin faded afar, and her voice was borne to him crying: ”O Túrin Mormakil, where is thy heart; O my beloved, wherefore dost thou forsake me?” So great then became Túrin's anguish that even the spell of that worm might not restrain it, and crying aloud he reached for the sword at his feet and would wound the drake with it, but the serpent breathed a foul and heated breath upon him, so that he swooned and thought that it was death.

A long time thereafter, and the tale telleth not how long, he came to himself, and he was lying gazing at the sun before the doors, and his head rested against a heap of gold even as the ransackers had left it. Then said the drake, who was hard by: “Wonderest thou not wherefore I have withheld death from thee, O Túrin Mormakil, who wast once named brave?” Then Túrin remembered all his griefs and the evil that had fallen upon him, and he said: “Taunt me not, foul worm, for thou knowest I would die; and for that alone, methinks, thou slayest me not.”

But the drake answered saying: “Know then this, O Túrin son of Úrin, that a fate of evil is woven about thee, and thou mayst not untangle thy footsteps from it whitherever thou goest. Yea indeed, I would not have thee slain, for thus wouldst thou escape very bitter sorrows and a weird of anguish.” Then Túrin leaping suddenly to his feet and avoiding that beast's baleful eye raised aloft his sword and cried: “Nay, from this hour shall none name me Túrin if I live. Behold, I will name me a new name and it shall be Turambar!” Now this meaneth Conqueror of Fate, arid the form of the name in the Gnome-speech is Turumart. Then uttering these words he made a second time at the drake, thinking indeed to force the drake to slay him and to conquer his fate by death, but the dragon laughed, saying: “Thou fool! An I would, I had slain

