---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P139.
date: 1984-01-01 02:19
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 139
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>end </I>of the fully-written Tale may seem surprising, but he clearly used these books in a rather eccentric way.) Nienóri is here called <I>Vainóni, </I>and Mavwin <I>Tirannë; </I>the spell of forgetfulness is here laid by a magician named <I>Kurúki, </I>although it is the dragon who lifts the veil that the magician set over them. Túrin's two encounters with the dragon seem to have emerged from an original single one.
</p>

As I have mentioned before, the <I>Tale of Turambar, </I>like others of the <I>Last Tales, </I>is written in ink over a wholly erased pencilled text, and the extant form of the tale is such that it could only be derived from a rougher draft preceding it; but the underlying text is so completely erased that there is no clue as to what stage it had reached in the development of the legend. It may well be - I think it is extremely probable - that in this outline concerning Vainóni, Tirannë, and Kurúki we glimpse by an odd chance a ‘layer’ in the Turin-saga older even than the erased text underlying the extant version.

§3.   <I>Miscellaneous Matters</I>

(i)    <I>Beren</I>

The rejected passage given on p. 71, together with the marginal note ‘If Beren be a Gnome (as now in the story of Tinúviel) the references to Beren must be altered’ (note 4), is the basis for my assertion (p. 52) that in the earliest, now lost, form of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel </I>Beren was a Man. I have shown, I hope, that the extant form of the <I>Tale of Turambar </I>preceded the extant form of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel </I>(p. 69). Beren was a Man, <I>and akin to Mavwin, </I>when the extant <I>Turambar </I>was written; he became a Gnome in the extant <I>Tinúviel; </I>and this change was then written into <I>Turambar. </I>What the replacement passage on p. 72 does is to change the relation of Egnor and Beren from kinship with Úrin's wife to friendship with Úrin. (A correction to the typescript version of <I>Tinúviel, </I>p. 45, is later: making the comradeship of Úrin with Beren rather than with Egnor.) Two further changes to the text of Turambar consequent on the change in Beren from Man to Elf are given in notes 5 and 6. - It is interesting to observe that in the developed genealogy of <I>The Silmarillion, </I>when Beren was of course again a Man, he was also again akin to Morwen: for Beren was first cousin to Morwen's father Baragund. In the rejected passage on p. 71 my father wrote against the name Egnor ‘Damrod the Gnome’ (note 2), and in the amended passage he wrote that Úrin had known Beren ‘and had rendered him a service once in respect of Damrod his son’. There is no clue anywhere as to what this service may have been; but in the second of the ‘schemes' for <I>The Book of Last Tales </I>(see I.233-4) the outline for the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring </I>refers to the son of Beren and Tinúviel, the father of Elwing, by the name <I>Daimord, </I>although in the actual tale as written the son is as he was to remain <I>Dior. </I>Presumably <I>Daimord </I>is to be equated with <I>Damrod.</I>

