---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P265.
date: 1984-01-01 04:25
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 265
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the only being that is half of the kindred of the Eldalië and half of Men. He was the greatest and first of all mariners among Men, and saw regions that Men have not yet found nor gazed upon for all the multitude of their boats. He rideth now with Voronwë upon the winds of the firmament nor comes ever further back than Kôr, else would he die like other Men, so much of the mortal is in him.’ - In the outline associated with the poem ‘The Bidding of the Minstrel’ Eärendel ‘sets sail upon the sky and returns no more to earth’ (p. 261); in the prose preface to ‘The Shores of Faëry’ ‘to Eglamar he comes ever at plenilune when the Moon sails a-harrying beyond Taniquetil and Valinor’ (p. 262); in outline C ‘he cannot now return to the world or he will die’ (p. 255); and in citation (xix) above he ‘returns from the firmament ever and anon with Voronwë to Kôr’.
</p>

In <I>The Silmarillion</I>(p. 249) Manwë's judgement was that Eärendel and Elwing ‘shall not walk ever again among Elves or Men in the Outer Lands'; but it is also said that Eärendel returned to Valinor from his ‘voyages beyond the confines of the world’ (<I>ibid. p</I>.250), just as it is said in the Name-list to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>that he does not come ever further back than Kôr. The further statement in the Name-list, that if he did he would die like other Men, ‘so much of the mortal is in him’, was in some sense echoed long after in a letter of my father's written in 1967: <I>‘Eärendil</I>,being in part descended from Men, was not allowed to set foot on Earth again, and became a star shining with the light of the Silmaril’ (<I>The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien</I>no. 297).

This brings to an end all the ‘prose’ materials that bear on the earliest form of the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I>(apart from a few other references to him that appear in the next chapter). With these outlines and notes we are at a very early stage of composition, when the conceptions were fluid and had not been given even preliminary narrative form: the myth was present in certain images that were to endure, but these images had not been articulated.

I have already noticed (p. 257) the remarkable fact that there is no hint of the idea that it was Eärendel who by his intercession brought aid out of the West; equally there is no suggestion that the Valar hallowed his ship and set him in the sky, nor that his light was that of the Silmaril. Nonetheless there were already present the coming of Eärendel to Kôr (Tirion) and finding it deserted, the dust of diamonds on his shoes, the changing of Elwing into a seabird, the passing of his ship through the Door of Night, and the sanction against his return to the lands east of the Sea. The raid on the Havens of Sirion appears in the early outlines, though that was an act of Melko's, not of the Fëanorians; and Tuor's departure also, but without Idril, whom he left behind. His ship was <I>Alqarámë</I>,Swanwing: afterwards it bore the name <I>Eârrámë</I>,with the meaning ‘Sea-wing’ (<I>The Silmarillion</I>p. 245), which retained, in form but not in meaning, the name of Eärendel's first ship <I>Eärámë</I>‘Eaglepinion’ (pp. 253-4, and see note 9).

