---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P269.
date: 1984-01-01 04:29
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 269
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Then Éarendel fled from that Shipman dread
</p>

Beyond the dark earth's pale,<BR>Back under the rim of the Ocean dim,

And behind the world set sail; 36<BR>And he heard the mirth of the folk of earth

And the falling of their tears,<BR>As the world dropped back in a cloudy wrack

On its journey down the years. 40

Then he glimmering passed to the starless vast

As an isléd lamp at sea,<BR>And beyond the ken of mortal men

Set his lonely errantry, 44<BR>Tracking the Sun in his galleon

Through the pathless firmament,<BR>Till his light grew old in abysses cold

And his eager flame was spent. 48

There seems every reason to think that this poem preceded all the outlines and notes given in this chapter, and that verbal similarities to the poem found in these are echoes (e.g. ‘his face is in silver flame’, outline C, p. 255; ‘the margent of the world’, outline E, p. 260).

In the fourth verse of the poem the Ship of the Moon comes forth from the Haven of the Sun; in the tale of <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> (I.215)Aulë and Ulmo built two havens in the east, that of the Sun (which was ‘wide and golden’) and that of the Moon (which was ‘white, having gates of silver and of pearl’) - but they were both ‘within the same harbourage’. As in the poem, in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> the Moon is urged on by ‘shimmering oars' (I.195).

II

<I>The Bidding of the Minstrel</I>

This poem, according to a note that my father scribbled on one of the copies, was written at St. John's Street, Oxford (see I.27) in the winter of 1914; there is no other evidence for its date. In this case the earliest workings are extant, and on the back of one of the sheets is the outline

33Then] And

38And the falling of] And hearkened to

46-8And voyaging the skies

Till his splendour was shorn by the birth of Morn<BR>And he died with the Dawn in his eyes.

