---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P148.
date: 1984-01-01 02:28
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 148
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
transcription it contains; when he did, he emended them anew, according to the sense, and not by reference back to <I>Tuor A.</I> In a very few cases I have gone back to <I>Tuor A</I> where this is clearly correct (as ‘a wall of water rose nigh to the cliff-top’, p. 151, where <I>Tuor B and</I> the typescript <I>Tuor C</I> have ‘high to the cliff-top’).
</p>

Throughout the typescript Tuor is called <I>Tûr.</I> In <I>Tuor B</I> the name is sometimes emended from <I>Tuor</I> to <I>Tûr</I> in the earlier part of the tale (it appears as <I>Tûr</I> in the latest revisions), but by no means in every case. My father apparently decided to change the name but ultimately decided against it; and I give <I>Tuor</I> throughout.

An interesting document accompanies the Tale: this is a substantial though incomplete list of names (with explanations) that occur in it, now in places difficult or impossible to read. The names are given in alphabetical order but go only as far as L. Linguistic information from this list is incorporated in the Appendix on Names, but the head-note to the list may be cited here:

Here is set forth by Eriol at the teaching of Bronweg's son Elfrith <I>[emended from</I> Elfriniel] or Littleheart (and he was so named for the youth and wonder of his heart) those names and words that are used in these tales from either the tongue of the Elves of Kôr as at that time spoken in the Lonely Isle, or from that related one of the Noldoli their kin whom they wrested from Melko.

Here first are they which appear in <I>The Tale of Tuor and the Exiles<BR>of Gondolin,</I> first among these those ones in the Gnome-speech.

In <I>Tuor A</I> appear two versions (one struck out) of a short ‘preface’ to the tale by Littleheart which does not appear in <I>Tuor B.</I> The second version reads:

Then said Littleheart son of Bronweg: ‘Now the story that I tell is of the Noldoli, who were my father's folk, and belike the names will ring strange in your ears and familiar folk be called by names not before heard, for the Noldoli speak a curious tongue sweet still to my ears though not maybe to all the Eldar. Wise folk see it as close kin to Eldarissa, but it soundeth not so, and I know nought of such lore. Wherefore will I utter to you the right Eldar names where there be such, but in many cases there be none. Know then,’ said he, ‘that

The earlier version (headed ‘Link between <I>Tuor</I> and tale before’) begins in the same way but then diverges:

. . . and it is sweet to my ears still, though lest it be not so to all else of Eldar and Men here gathered I will use no more of it than I must, and that is in the names of those folk and things whereof the tale tells but

