---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P288.
date: 1984-01-01 04:48
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 288
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
to Tavrobel - these were now become fosses and [?mounds] of stark red earth, and nought sang there nor danced but unwholesome airs and flies of pestilence.
</p>

Now the Sun died and behold, I came to that most magic wood<BR>where once the ageless oaks stood firm amid the later growths of beech<BR>and slender trees of birch, but all were fallen beneath the ruthless axes<BR>of unthinking men. Ah me, here was the path beaten with spells,<BR>trodden with musics and enchantment that wound therethrough, and<BR>this way were the Elves wont to ride a-hunting. Many a time there have<BR>I seen them and Gilfanon has been there, and they rode like kings unto<BR>the chase, and the beauty of their faces in the sun was as the new<BR>morning, and the wind in their golden hair like to the glory of bright<BR>flowers shaken at dawn, and the strong music of their voices like the sea<BR>and like trumpets and like the noise of very many viols and of golden<BR>harps unnumbered. And yet again have I seen the people of Tavrobel<BR>beneath the Moon, and they would ride or dance across the valley of<BR>the two rivers where the grey bridge leaps the joining waters; and they<BR>would fare swiftly as clad in dreams, spangled with gems like to the<BR>grey dews amid the grass, and their white robes caught the long<BR>radiance of the Moon .............. and their spears shivered with

silver flames.

And now sorrow and ..... has come upon the Elves, empty is Tavrobel and all are fled, [?fearing] the enemy that sitteth on the ruined heath, who is not a league away; whose hands are red with the blood of Elves and stained with the lives of his own kin, who has made himself an ally to Melko and the Lord of Hate, who has fought for the Orcs and Gongs and the unwholesome monsters of the world -blind, and a fool, and destruction alone is his knowledge. The paths of the fairies he has made to dusty roads where thirst [?lags wearily] and no man greeteth another in the way, but passes by in sullenness.

So fade the Elves and it shall come to be that because of the encompassing waters of this isle and yet more because of their unquenchable love for it that few shall flee, but as men wax there and grow fat and yet more blind ever shall they fade more and grow less; and those of the after days shall scoff, saying Who are the fairies - lies told to the children by women or foolish men - who are these fairies? And some few shall answer: Memories faded dim, a wraith of vanishing loveliness in the trees, a rustle of the grass, a glint of dew, some subtle intonation of the wind; and others yet fewer shall say..... ‘Very small and delicate are the fairies now, yet we have eyes to see and ears to hear, and Tavrobel and Kortirion are filled yet with [?this] sweet folk. Spring knows them and Summer too and in Winter still are they among us, but in Autumn most of all do they come out, for Autumn is their season, fallen as they are upon the Autumn of their days. What shall the dreamers of the earth be like when their winter come.

Hark O my brothers, they shall say, the little trumpets blow; we

