---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P45.
date: 1984-01-01 00:45
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: ["I. THE TALE OF TINÚVIEL"]
page_num: 45
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Subsequently a part of this passage was emended on the typescript, to read:
</p>

. . . and long days of friendship had he known with the folk of Men (as had Beren himself thereafter as brother in arms to Úrin the Steadfast); but in those days the Orcs named him Rog the Fleet, and the name of Egnor was nought to Melko.

At the same time the words ‘Now the Valar must have inspired that speech’ were changed to ‘Now the Valar inspired that speech’.

(15) Thus was Beren set by Melko as a thrall to The Prince of Cats, whom the Gnomes have called Tiberth Bridhon Miaugion, but the Elves Tevildo.

Subsequently <I>Tiberth</I> appears for MS <I>Tevildo</I> throughout, and in one place the full name <I>Tiberth Bridhon Miaugion</I> appears again. In the MS the Gnomish name is <I>Tifil</I>.

(17) ... getting nought but a bitten finger for his toil. Then was Tiberth wroth, and said: “Thou hast lied to my lord, O Gnome, and art fitter to be a scullion than a huntsman, who canst not catch even the mice about my halls.” Evil thereafter were his days in the power of Tiberth; for a scullion they made him, and unending labour he had in the hewing of wood and drawing of water, and in the menial services of that noisome abode. Often too was he tormented by the cats and other evil beasts of their company, and when, as happened at whiles, there was an Orc-feast in those halls, he would ofttimes be set to the roasting of birds and other meats upon spits before the mighty fires in Melko's dungeons, until he swooned for the overwhelming heat; yet he knew himself fortunate beyond all hope in being yet alive among those cruel foes of Gods and Elves. Seldom got he food or sleep himself, and he became haggard and half-blind, so that he wished often that never straying out of the wild free places of Hisilómë he had not even caught sight afar off of the vision of Tinúviel.

 (17) But Melian laughed not, nor said aught thereto; for in many things was she wise and forewise - yet nonetheless it was a thing unthought in a mad dream that any Elf, still less a maiden, the daughter of that king who had longest defied Melko, should fare alone even to the borders of that sorrowful country amid which lies Angband and the Hells of Iron. Little love was there between the woodland Elves and the folk of Angband even in those days I before the Battle of Unnumbered Tears when Melko's power was not grown to its full, and he veiled his designs, and spread his net

