---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P197.
date: 1984-01-01 03:17
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 197
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the house of his father,<SUP>39</SUP> and the great tale of Tuor is come to its
</p>

waning.’

Then said Littleheart son of Bronweg: ‘Alas for Gondolin.’<BR>And no one in all the Room of Logs spake or moved for a great

while.

NOTES

1     Not of course the great journey to the Sea from the Waters of Awakening, but the expedition of the Elves of Kôr for the rescue of the Gnomes (see I.26).

2   A <I>korin </I>is defined in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play </I>(I.16) as ‘a great circular hedge, be it of stone or of thorn or even of trees, that encloses a green sward’; Meril-i-Turinqi dwelt ‘in a great <I>korin </I>of elms'.

3   <I>Tôn a Gwedrin </I>is the Tale-fire.

4   There is here a direction: ‘See hereafter the Nauglafring’, but this is struck out.

5   On Heorrenda see pp. 29off, 323. A small space is left after the words ‘it is thus’ to mark the place of the poem in Old English that was to be inserted, but there is no indication of what it was to be.

6   This passage, beginning with the words ‘And Tuor entered that cavern . . .’ on p. 149, is a late replacement written on a slip (see p. 147). The original passage was largely similar in meaning, but contained the following:

Now in delving that riverway beneath the hills the Noldoli worked unknown to Melko who in those deep days held them yet hidden and thralls beneath his will. Rather were they prompted by Ulmo who strove ever against Melko; and through Tuor he hoped to devise for the Gnomes release from the terror of the evil of Melko.

7   ‘three days': ‘three years' all texts, but ‘days?’ pencilled above ‘years' in <I>Tuor B.</I>

8   The ‘evolution’ of sea-birds through Ossë is described in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves, </I>I.123; but the sentence here derives from the original pencilled text of <I>Tuor A.</I>

9   In the typescript <I>Tuor </I>C a blank was left here (see p. 147) and subsequently filled in with ‘Ulmo’, not ‘Ainur’.

