---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P145.
date: 1984-01-01 02:25
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 145
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
face of their lady among them, for they purposed to make a festival and to hold a great telling of Elfin tales, ere Eriol their guest fared awhile to Tavrobel. So was it that for three days that room heard no more tales and the folk of Vanwa Tyaliéva made great preparations, but on the fourth night Meril fared there amid her company of maidens, and full of light and mirth was that place; but after the evening meat a great host sat before Tôn a Gwedrin,<SUP>3 </SUP>and the maidens of Meril sang the most beautiful songs that island knew.<SUP>4</SUP>
</p>

And of those one did afterward Heorrenda turn to the language of his folk, and it is thus.<SUP>5</SUP>

But when those songs had fallen into silence then said Meril, who sate in the chair of Lindo: ‘Come now, O Ilfiniol, begin thou the tale of tales, and tell it more fully than thou hast ever done.’

Then said Littleheart son of Bronweg . . . (Tale of Gondolin). <I>[sic]</I>

This then is the <I>Link</I> between the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> and <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (an earlier ‘preface’ to the tale is given below). It seems that my father hesitated as to which tale was to follow <I>Turambar</I> (see note 4), but decided that it was time to introduce <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, which had been in existence for some time.

In this <I>Link</I>, Ailios (later Gilfanon) is present (‘I would fain have aid ... of Ailios here’) at the end of Eltas’ tale of Turambar, but at the beginning of Eltas’ tale (p. 70) it is expressly said that he was not present that night. On the proposal that Eriol should ‘fare awhile’ to Tavrobel (as the guest of Gilfanon) see I.175.

The fact that Eltas speaks of the tale of Beren Ermabwed as if he did not know that it had only recently been told in Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva is no doubt to be explained by that tale not having been told before the Tale-fire (see pp. 4-7).

The teller of the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, Littleheart the Gong-warden of Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva, has appeared several times in the <I>Last Tales</I>, and his Elvish name(s) have many different forms (see under <I>Changes made to names</I> at the end of the text of the tale). In <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> he is said (I.15) to be ‘ancient beyond count’, and to have ‘sailed in Wingilot with Earendel in that last voyage wherein they sought for Kôr’; and in the <I>Link</I> to <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> (I.46) he ‘had a weather-worn face and blue eyes of great merriment, and was very slender and small, nor might one say if he were fifty or ten thousand’. He is a Gnome, the son of Bronweg/Voronwë (Voronwë of <I>The Silmarillion</I>) (I.48, 94).

