---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P72.
date: 1984-01-01 01:12
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 72
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

The replacement passage reads:

Amended passage to fit better with the story of Tinúviel and the afterhistory of the Nauglafring:

The tale tells however that Úrin had been a friend of the Elves, and in this he was different from many of his folk. Now great had his friendship been with Egnor, the Elf of the greenwood, the huntsman of the Gnomes, and Beren Ermabwed son of Egnor he knew and had rendered him a service once in respect of Damrod his son; but the deeds of Beren of the One Hand in the halls of Tinwelint<SUP>3</SUP> were remembered still in Dor Lómin. Wherefore it came into the heart of Mavwin, for lack of other counsel, to send Turin her son to the court of Tinwelint, begging him to foster this orphan for the memory of Úrin and of Beren son of Egnor.<SUP>4</SUP>

Very bitter indeed was that sundering, and for long [?time] Turin wept and would not leave his mother, and this was the first of the many sorrows that befell him in life. Yet at length when his mother had reasoned with him he gave way and prepared him in anguish for that journey. With him went two old men, retainers aforetime of his father Úrin, and when all was ready and the farewells taken they turned their feet towards the dark hills, and the little dwelling of Mavwin was lost in the trees, and Turin blind with tears could see her no more. Then ere they passed out of earshot he cried out: ”O Mavwin my mother, soon will I come back to thee” — but he knew not that the doom of Melko lay between them.

Long and very weary and uncertain was the road over the dark hills of Hithlum into the great forests of the Land Beyond where in those days Tinwelint the hidden king had his abode; and Túrin son of Úrin<SUP>5</SUP> was the first of Men to tread that way, nor have many trodden it since. In perils were Turin and his guardians of wolves and wandering Orcs that at that time fared even thus far from Angband as the power of Melko waxed and spread over the kingdoms of the North. Evil magics were about them, that often missing their way they wandered fruitlessly for many days, yet in the end did they win through and thanked the Valar therefor - yet maybe it was but part of the fate that Melko wove about their feet, for in after time Túrin would fain have perished as a child there in the dark woods.

Howso that may be, this was the manner of their coming to

