---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P297.
date: 1984-01-01 04:57
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 297
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
There is a city that far distant lies
</p>

And a vale outcarven in forgotten days -

There wider was the grass, and lofty elms more rare;

The river-sense was heavy in the lowland air.

There many willows changed the aspect of the earth and skies

Where feeding brooks wound in by sluggish ways,

And down the margin of the sailing Thames

Around his broad old bosom their old stems

Were bowed, and subtle shades lay on his streams

Where their grey leaves adroop o'er silver pools

Did knit a coverlet like shimmering jewels

Of blue and misty green and filtering gleams.

O agéd city of an all too brief sojourn,

I see thy clustered windows each one burn

With lamps and candles of departed men.

The misty stars thy crown, the night thy dress,

Most peerless-magical thou dost possess

My heart, and old days come to life again;

Old mornings dawn, or darkened evenings bring

The same old twilight noises from the town.

Thou hast the very core of longing and delight,

To thee my spirit dances oft in sleep

Along thy great grey streets, or down

A little lamplit alley-way at night -

Thinking no more of other cities it has known,

Forgetting for a while the tree-girt keep,

And town of dreams, where men no longer sing.

For thy heart knows, and thou shedst many tears

For all the sorrow of these evil years.

Thy thousand pinnacles and fretted spires

Are lit with echoes and the lambent fires

Of many companies of bells that ring

Rousing pale visions of majestic days

The windy years have strewn down distant ways;

And in thy halls still doth thy spirit sing

Songs of old memory amid thy present tears,

Or hope of days to come half-sad with many fears.

Lo! though along thy paths no laughter runs

While war untimely takes thy many sons,

No tide of evil can thy glory drown

Robed in sad majesty, the stars thy crown.

