---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P339.
date: 1984-01-01 05:39
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 339
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
over alike.’ With this cf. I.251 <I>(Eldar</I>). GL gives <I>lam</I> ‘tongue’, and <I>lambë</I> is found in QL: a word that survived into later Quenya. In QL it is given as a derivative of root LAVA ‘lick’, and defined ‘tongue (of body, but also of land, or even = “speech”)’.
</p>

<B>Eldarissa </B>appears in QL (‘the language of the Eldar’) but without explanation of the final element. Possibly it was derived from the root isi: <I>ista</I> ‘know’, <I>issë</I> ‘knowledge, lore’, <I>iswa, isqa</I> ‘wise’, etc.

<B>Elfrith </B>See pp. 201-2, and I.255 <I>(Ilverin</I>).

<B>Elmavoitë </B>‘One-handed’ (Beren). See <I>Ermabwed</I>.

<B>Elwing </B>GL has the following entry: <I>‘Ailwing</I> older spelling of <I>Elwing =</I> “lake foam”. As a noun = “white water-lily”. The name of the maiden loved by loringli’ <I>(Ioringli = Eärendel</I>, see I.251). The first element appears in the words <I>ail</I> ‘lake, pool’, <I>ailion</I> ‘lake’, Qenya <I>ailo, ailin -</I> cf. later <I>Aelin-uial</I>. The second element is <I>gwing</I>‘foam’: see I.273 <I>(Wingilot</I>).

<B>Erenol </B>See I.252 <I>(Eriol</I>).

<B>Ermabwed </B>‘One-handed’ (Beren). GL gives <I>mab</I> ‘hand’, <I>amabwed, mabwed</I> ‘having hands', <I>mabwedri</I> ‘dexterity’, <I>mabol</I> ‘skilful’, <I>mabliqs</I> ‘cunning’, <I>mablad, mablod</I> ‘palm of hand’, <I>mabrin(d</I>) ‘wrist’. A related word in Qenya was said in GL to be <I>mapa</I> (root MAPA) ‘seize’, but this statement was struck out. QL has also a root MAHA with many derivatives, notably <I>ma</I> (= m<I>aha</I>) ‘hand’, <I>mavoitë</I> ‘having hands' (cf. <I>Elmavoitë</I>).

<B>Faiglindra </B>‘Long-tressed’ (Airin). Gnomish <I>faigli</I> ‘hair, long tresses (especially used of women)’; <I>faiglion</I> ‘having long hair’, and <I>faiglim</I> of the same meaning, ‘especially as a proper name’, <I>Faiglim, Aurfaiglim</I> ‘the Sun at noon’. With this is bracketed the word <I>faiglin(d)ra</I>.

<B>Failivrin </B>Together with <I>fail</I> ‘pale, pallid’, <I>failthi</I> ‘pallor’, and <I>Failin</I> a<BR>name of the Moon, GL gives <I>Failivrin:</I> ‘(i) a maid beloved by<BR>Silmo; (2) a name among the Gnomes of many maidens of great<BR>beauty, especially Failivrin of the Rothwarin in the Tale of<BR>Turumart.’ (In the Tale <I>Rothwarin</I> was replaced by <I>Rodothlim.)<BR></I>The second element is <I>brin</I>, Qenya <I>vírin</I>, ‘a magic glassy sub- <BR>stance of great lucency used in fashioning the Moon. Used of things<BR>of great and pure transparency.’ For <I>vírin</I> see I.192-3.<BR><B>Falasquil </B>Three entries in NFG refer to this name (for <I>falas</I> see also<BR>I.253 <I>(Falman)):</I>

<I>‘Falas</I> meaneth (even as falas of falass<I>ë</I> in Eldar) a beach.’<BR><I>'Falas-a-Gwilb</I> the “beach of peace” <I>was Falasquil</I> in Elfin where<BR>Tuor at first dwelt in a sheltered cove by the Great Sea.’ <I>-a-Gwilb</I> is<BR>struck through and above is written, apparently, <I>‘Wilb or Wilma.<BR>‘Gwilb</I> meaneth “full of peace”, which <I>is gwilm.’<BR></I>GL gives <I>gwîl, gwilm, gwilthi</I> ‘peace’, and <I>gwilb</I> ‘quiet, peace-<BR>ful'.

