---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P341.
date: 1984-01-01 05:41
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 341
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>horma</I>‘horde, host’; also <I>Sankossi</I>‘the Goblins', equivalent of Gnomish <I>Glamhoth</I>,and evidently compounded of <I>sankë</I>‘hateful’ (root SNKN ‘rend, tear’) <I>and hossë</I>.
</p>

<B>Glend    </B>Perhaps connected with Gnomish <I>glenn</I>‘thin, fine’, <I>glendrin</I>‘slender’, <I>glendrinios</I>‘slenderness’, <I>glent, glentweth</I>‘thinness’; Qenya root LENE ‘long’, which developed its meaning in different directions: ‘slow, tedious, trailing’, and ‘stretch, thin’: <I>lenka</I>‘slow’, <I>lenwa</I>‘long and thin, straight, narrow’, <I>lenu-</I>‘stretch’, etc. <B>Glingol </B>For the entry in NFG, where the name is translated ‘singing-gold’, see p. 216; and see I.258 (<I>Lindelos)</I>.The second element is <I>culu</I>‘gold’, for which see I.255 (<I>Ilsaluntë);</I>another entry in NFG reads: <I>‘Culu</I>or <I>Culon</I>is a name we have in poesy for <I>Glor</I>(and Rúmil saith that it is the Elfin <I>Kulu</I>,and <I>-gol</I>in our <I>Glingol).’</I><B>Glorfalc </B>For <I>glor</I>see I.258 (<I>Laurelin)</I>.NFG has an entry: <I>‘Glor</I>is gold and is that word that cometh in verse of the Kôr-Eldar <I>laurë</I>(so saith Rúmil).’

<I>Falc</I>is glossed in GL'(i) cleft, gash; (2) cleft, ravine, cliffs'(also<BR>given is <I>falcon</I>‘a great two-handed sword, twibill’, which was<BR>changed  to <I>falchon</I>,and  so  close  to  English <I>falchion</I>‘broad-<BR>sword’). NFG has: <I>‘Falc</I>is cleft and is much as Cm; being Elfin<BR> <I>Falqa’;</I>and under root FLKL in QL <I>arefalqa</I>‘cleft, mountain pass,<BR>ravine’ <I>andfalqan</I>‘large sword’. GL has a further entry: <I>Glorfalc<BR></I>‘a great ravine leading out of Garioth’. <I>Garioth</I>is here used of<BR>Hisilómë; see I.252 (<I>Eruman)</I>.Cf. later <I>Orfalch Echor.<BR></I><B>Glorfindel    </B>For the entry in NFG, where the name is rendered ‘Gold-<BR>tress’, see p. 216. For <I>glor</I>see I.258 (<I>Laurelin)</I>,and <I>Glorfalc</I>.GL<BR>had an entry <I>findel</I>‘lock of hair’, together with <I>fith</I> (<I>fidhin</I>)‘a single<BR>I                                <I>hair',fidhra</I>‘hairy’, <I>but findel</I>was struck out; later entries <I>are finn<BR></I>‘lock of hair’ (<I>see fin-</I>in the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion) and fingl<BR></I>or <I>finnil</I>‘tress’. NFG: <I>‘Findel</I>is “tress”, and is the Elfin <I>Findil.’<BR></I>Under root FIRI QL <I>gives find!</I>‘lock of hair’ <I>and firin</I>‘ray of the

sun’.

 In another place in GL the name <I>Glorfindel</I>was given, and translated ‘Goldlocks’, but it was changed later to <I>Glorfinn</I>,with a variant <I>Glorfingl</I>.

<B> Glorund </B>For <I>glor</I>see I.258 (<I>Laurelin), and Glorfalc</I>.GL gives <I>Glorunn</I>‘the great drake slain by Turumart’. Neither of the Qenya forms <I>Laurundo, Undolaurë</I>(p. 84) appear in QL, which gives an earlier name for ‘the great worm’, <I>Fentor</I>,together with <I>fent</I>‘serpent’, <I>fenumë</I>‘dragon’. As this entry was first written it read ‘the great worm slain by Ingilmo’; to this was added ‘or Turambar’. <B>Golosbrindi </B>(Earlier name of Hirilorn, rendered in the text (p. 51) ‘Queen of the Forest’.) A word <I>goloth</I>‘forest’ is given in GL, derived from <I>\*gwoloth</I>,which is itself composed of <I>aloth (alos)</I>,a verse word meaning ‘forest’ (= <I>taur)</I>,and the prefix <I>\*ngua > gwa</I>,unaccented <I>go</I>,‘together, in one’, ‘often used merely intensively’.

