---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P292.
date: 1984-01-01 04:52
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 292
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The note continues (using Old English forms): ‘In Wíelisc <I>Caergwâr</I>,in Englisc <I>Warwíc.’</I>Thus the element <I>War-</I>in <I>Warwick</I>is derived from the same Elvish source as <I>Kor-</I>in <I>Kortirion</I>and <I>Gwar</I>in <I>Mindon-Gwar</I>.<SUP>12</SUP><I></I>Lastly, it is said that ‘Hengest's capital was Warwick’.
</p>

Next, Horsa (Hengest's brother) is associated with <I>Oxenaford</I>(Old English: Oxford), which is given the equivalents Q[enya] <I>Taruktarna</I>and Gnomish.<I>\*Taruithorn</I>(see the Appendix on Names, p. 347).

The third of Eriol's sons, Heorrenda, is said to have had his ‘capital’ at Great Haywood (the Staffordshire village where my parents lived in 1916—17, see I.25); and this is given the Qenya equivalents <I>Tavaros(së</I>)and <I>Taurossë</I>,and the Gnomish <I>Tavrobel</I>and <I>Tavrost;</I>also ‘Englisc [i.e. Old English] <I>Hægwudu se gréata, Gréata Hægwudu'</I>.<SUP>13</SUP>

These notes conclude with the statement that ‘Heorrenda called Kôr or Gwâr “Tûn”.’ In the context of these conceptions, this is obviously the Old English word <I>tún</I>,an enclosed dwelling, from which has developed the modern word <I>town</I>and the place-name ending <I>-ton. Tûn</I>has appeared several times in the <I>Lost</I> <I>Tales</I>as a later correction, or alternative to <I>Kôr</I>,changes no doubt dating from or anticipating the later situation where the city was <I>Tûn</I>and the name <I>Kôr</I>was restricted to the hill on which it stood. Later still <I>Tûn</I>became <I>Túna</I>,and then when the city of the Elves was named <I>Tirion</I>the hill became <I>Túna</I>,as it is in <I>The Silmarillion;</I>by then it had ceased to have any connotation of ‘dwelling-place’ and had cut free from all connection with its actual origin, as we see it here, in Old English <I>tún</I>,Heorrenda's ‘town’.

Can all these materials be brought together to form a coherent narrative? I believe that they can (granting that there are certain irreconcilable differences concerning Eriol's life), and would reconstruct it thus:

—   The Eldar and the rescued Noldoli departed from the Great Lands and came to Tol Eressëa.

—   In Tol Eressëa they built many towns and villages, and in Alalminórë, the central region of the island, Ingil son of Inwë built the town of Koromas, ‘the Resting of the Exiles of Kôr’ (‘Exiles', because they could not return to Valinor); and the great tower of Ingil gave the town its name <I>Kortirion</I>.(See I.16.)

-   Ottor Wǽfre came from Heligoland to Tol Eressëa and dwelt in the Cottage of Lost Play in Kortirion; the Elves named him <I>Eriol</I>or <I>Angol</I>after the ‘iron cliffs' of his home.

-   After a time, and greatly instructed in the ancient history of Gods, Elves, and Men, Eriol went to visit Gilfanon in the village of Tavrobel, and there he wrote down what he had learnt; there also he at last drank <I>limpë</I>.

