---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P328.
date: 1984-01-01 05:28
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 328
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
magic ‘lingered yet mightily in the woods and hills of Luthany’; in his old age all was gone West-over-sea, and an end was indeed come for the Eldar of story and of song.
</p>

NOTES

1    On this statement about the stature of Elves and Men see pp. 326-7.

3   <I>Belaurin</I> is the Gnomish equivalent of <I>Palúrien</I> (see I.264).

4   A side-note here suggests that perhaps the Pine should not be in Tol Eressëa. - For <I>Ilwë,</I> the middle air, that is ‘blue and clear and flows among the stars', see I. 65, 73.

5   <I>Gil = Ingil.</I> At the first occurrence of <I>Ingil</I> in this passage the name was written <I>Ingil (Gil),</I> but (Gil) was struck out.

6   The word <I>Nautar</I> occurs in a rejected outline for the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> (p. 136), where it is equated with <I>Nauglath</I> (Dwarves).

7   <I>Uin:</I> ‘the mightiest and most ancient of whales', chief among those whales and fishes that drew the ‘island-car’ (afterwards Tol Eressëa) on which Ulmo ferried the Elves to Valinor (I.118-20).

8   <I>Gongs:</I> these are evil beings obscurely related to Orcs: see I.245 note 10, and the rejected outlines for the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> given on pp. 136-7.

9   A large query is written against this passage.

10   The likeness of this name to <I>Dor Daedeloth</I> is striking, but that is the name of the realm of Morgoth in <I>The Silmarillion,</I> and is interpreted ‘Land of the Shadow of Horror’; the old name (whose elements are <I>dai</I> ‘sky’ and <I>teloth</I> ‘roof) has nothing in common with the later except its form.

<I>12</I>   The origin of <I>Warwick</I> according to conventional etymology is uncertain. The element <I>wic,</I> extremely common in English place-names, meant essentially a dwelling or group of dwellings. The earliest recorded form of the name is <I>Wæring wic,</I> and <I>Wæring</I> has been thought to be an Old English word meaning a dam, a derivative from <I>wer,</I> Modern English <I>weir:</I> thus ‘dwellings by the weir’.

13   Cf. the title-page given in citation (11): <I>Heorrenda of Hægwudu. -</I> No forms of the name of this Staffordshire village are actually recorded from before the Norman Conquest, but the Old English form was undoubtedly <I>hæg-wudu</I> ‘enclosed wood’ (cf. the <I>High Hay,</I> the great hedge that protected Buckland from the Old Forest in <I>The Lord of the Rings)</I>.

14   The name Luthany, of a country, occurs five times in Francis

