---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P67.
date: 1984-01-01 01:07
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 67
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
§3. <I>Miscellaneous Matters</I>
</p>

(i) <I>Morgoth</I>
Beren addresses Melko as ‘most mighty Belcha Morgoth’, which are said to be his names among the Gnomes (p. 44). In the Gnomish dictionary <I>Belcha</I> is given as the Gnomish form corresponding to <I>Melko</I> (see 1.260), but <I>Morgoth</I> is not found in it: indeed this is the first and only appearance of the name in the <I>Lost Tales</I>. The element <I>goth</I> is given in the Gnomish dictionary with the meaning ‘war, strife’; but if <I>Morgoth</I> meant at this period ‘Black Strife’ it is perhaps strange that Beren should use it in a flattering speech. A name-list made in the 193os explains <I>Morgoth</I> as ‘formed from his Orc-name <I>Goth</I> “Lord or Master” with <I>mor</I> “dark or black” prefixed’, but it seems very doubtful that this etymology is valid for the earlier period. This name-list explains <I>Gothmog</I> ‘Captain of Balrogs’ as containing the same Orc-element (‘Voice of <I>Goth</I> (Morgoth)’); but in the name-list to the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (p. 216) the name <I>Gothmog</I> is said to mean ‘Strife-and-hatred’ <I>(mog-</I> ‘detest, hate’ appears in the Gnomish dictionary), which supports the interpretation of <I>Morgoth</I> in the present tale as ‘Black Strife’.\*

(ii) <I>Orcs and Balrogs</I>

Despite the reference to ‘the wandering bands of the goblins <I>and</I> the Orcs' (p. 14, retained in the typescript version), the terms are certainly synonymous in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>. The Orcs are described in the present tale <I>(ibid.</I>) as ‘foul broodlings of Melko’. In the second version (p. 44) wolf-rider Orcs appear.

Balrogs, mentioned in the tale (p. 15), have appeared in one of the outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> (1.241); but they had already played an important part in the earliest of the <I>Lost Tales</I>, that of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (see pp. 212-13).

(iii) <I>Tinúviel's ‘lengthening spell’</I>

Of the ‘longest things' named in this spell (pp. 19-20,46) two, ‘the sword of Nan’ and ‘the neck of Gilim the giant’, seem now lost beyond recall, though they survived into the spell in the <I>Lay of Leithian</I>, where the sword of Nan is itself named, <I>Glend</I>, and Gilim is called ‘the giant of

