---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P309.
date: 1984-01-01 05:09
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 309
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Ing(wë) set sail (with many of his people, 24) to find Tol Eressëa (23, 24).
</p>

Ing(wë)'s voyage, through the enmity of Ossë, ended in shipwreck, but Ing(wë) survived, and far to the East [i.e. after being driven across the North Sea] he became King of the Ingwaiwar the ancestors of the Anglo-Saxon invaders of Britain (23, 24).

Ing(wë) instructed the Ingwaiwar in true knowledge of the Gods and Elves (23) and turned their hearts to seafaring westwards (24). He prophesied that his kin should one day return again to Luthany (22).

Ing(wë) at length departed in a boat (22, 24), and was heard of no more (24), or came to Tol Eressëa (22).

After Ing(wë)'s departure from Luthany a channel was made so that Luthany became an isle (26) ; but Men crossed the channel in boats

-   Seven successive invasions took place , including that of the Rúmhoth or Romans, and at each new war more of the remaining Elves of Luthany fled over the sea (20, 22).

-   The seventh invasion, that of the Ingwaiwar, was however not hostile to the Elves (20, 21) ; and these invaders were ‘coming back to their own’ (22), since they were the people of Ing(wë).

-   The Elves of Luthany (now England) throve again and ceased to leave Luthany for Tol Eressëa (19), and they spoke to the Ingwaiwar in their own language, Old English (21).

-   Ælfwine was an Englishman of the Anglo-Saxon period, a descendant of Ing(wë), who had derived a knowledge of and love of the Elves from the tradition of his family (15, 16).

-  Ælfwine came to Tol Eressëa, found that Old English was spoken there, and was called by the Elves Lúthien ‘friend’, the Man of Luthany (the Isle of Friendship) (15, 16, 19).

I claim no more for this than that it seems to me to be the only way in which these <I>disjecta membra </I>can be set together into a comprehensive narrative scheme. It must be admitted even so that it requires some forcing of the evidence to secure apparent agreement. For example, there seem to be different views of the relation of the Ingwaiwar to Ing(wë): they are ‘the sons of Ing’ (19), ‘his kin’ (22), ‘the children of the children of Ing’ (22), yet he seems to have become the king and teacher of North Sea peoples who had no connection with Luthany or the Elves (23, 24). (Over whom did he rule when the Elves first retreated to Luthany (18, 23)?) Again, it is very difficult to fit the ‘hundred ages' during which the

