---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P274.
date: 1984-01-01 04:34
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 274
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
That divers won in waters of the unknown Sun -
</p>

And, maybe, 'tis a throbbing silver lyre,

Or voices of grey sailors echo up 15

Afloat among the shadows of the world

In oarless shallop and with canvas furled;

For often seems there ring of feet and song

Or twilit twinkle of a trembling gong.

O! happy mariners upon a journey long 20

To those great portals on the Western shores

Where far away constellate fountains leap,

And dashed against Night's dragon-headed doors,

In foam of stars fall sparkling in the deep.

While I alone look out behind the Moon 25

From in my white and windy tower,

Ye bide no moment and await no hour,

But chanting snatches of a mystic tune

Go through the shadows and the dangerous seas

Past sunless lands to fairy leas 30

Where stars upon the jacinth wall of space

Do tangle burst and interlace.

Ye follow Eärendel through the West,

The shining mariner, to Islands blest;

While only from beyond that sombre rim 35

A wind returns to stir these crystal panes

And murmur magically of golden rains

That fall for ever in those spaces dim.

In <I>The Hiding of Valinor (</I>I<I></I>. 215) it is told that when the Sun was first made the Valar purposed to draw it beneath the Earth, but that

it was too frail and lissom; and much precious radiance was spilled in their attempts about the deepest waters, and escaped to linger as secret sparks in many an unknown ocean cavern. These have many elfin divers, and divers of the fays, long time sought beyond the outmost East, even as is sung in the song of the Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl.

That ‘The Happy Mariners' was in fact ‘the song of the Sleeper in the<BR>Tower of Pearl’ seems assured by lines 10-13 of the poem.

For ‘Night's dragon-headed doors' see p. 273. The meaning <I>of jacinth</I> in ‘the jacinth wall of space<SUP>1</SUP> (line 31) is ‘blue’; cf. ‘the deep-blue walls' in <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> (I.215).

Many years later my father rewrote the poem, and I give this version here. Still later he turned to it again and made a few further alterations (here recorded in footnotes); at this time he noted that the revised version dated from’ 1940 ?’.

