---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P203.
date: 1984-01-01 03:23
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 203
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Duilin</I> At the first occurrence (p. 173) < <I>Duliglin</I> in the original text of
</p>

<I>Tuor A.<BR>Rog</I>In <I>Tuor A</I> spelt <I>Rôg</I> in the earlier occurrences, <I>Rog</I> in the later; in

<I>Tuor B</I> spelt <I>Rôg</I> throughout but mostly emended later to <I>Rog.<BR>Dramborleg</I>At the occurrence on p. 181 < <I>Drambor</I> in the original

text of <I>Tuor A</I>.

<I>Bansil</I>At the occurrence on p. 184 only, <I>Bansil > Banthil</I> in <I>Tuor B.<BR>Cristhorn</I> From the first occurrence on p. 189 written <I>Cristhorn</I> (not

Cm <I>Thorn</I>) in <I>Tuor A; Cris Thorn Tuor B</I> throughout.<BR><I>Bad Uthwen < Bad Uswen</I> in <I>Tuor B</I>. The original reading in <I>Tuor A</I>

was (apparently) <I>Bad Usbran. Sorontur < Ramandur</I> in <I>Tuor B. Bablon, Ninwi, Trui, Rûm</I> The original text of <I>Tuor A</I> had <I>Babylon</I>,

<I>Nineveh, Troy</I>, and (probably) <I>Rome</I>. These were changed to the

forms given in the text, except <I>Nineveh> Ninwë</I>, changed to

<I>Ninwi</I> in <I>Tuor B</I>.

Commentary on<BR><I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>

§1. <I>The primary narrative</I>

As with the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> I break my commentary on this tale into sections. I refer frequently to the much later version (which extends only to the coming of Tuor and Voronwë to sight of Gondolin across the plain) printed in <I>Unfinished Tales</I> pp. 17-51 (‘Of Tuor and his Coming to Gondolin’); this I shall call here ‘the later <I>Tuor’</I>.

(i) <I>Tuor's journey to the Sea and the visitation<BR>of Ulmo</I> (pp. 149-56)

In places the later <I>Tuor</I> (the abandonment of which is one of the saddest facts in the whole history of incompletion) is so close in wording to <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, written more than thirty years before, as to make it almost certain that my father had it in front of him, or at least had recently reread it. Striking examples from the late version (pp. 23-4) are: ‘The sun rose behind his back and set before his face, and where the water foamed among the boulders or rushed over sudden falls, at morning and evening rainbows were woven across the stream’; ‘Now he said: “It is a fay-voice,” now: “Nay, it is a small beast that is wailing in the waste’”; ‘[Tuor] wandered still for some days in a rugged country bare of trees; and it was swept by a wind from the sea, and all that grew there, herb or bush, leaned ever to the dawn because of the prevalence of that wind from the West’ - which are very closely similar to or almost identical with

