---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P254.
date: 1984-01-01 04:14
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 254
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Written at the end of the text is: ‘Rem[ainder] of Scheme in Notebook C'. These references in Scheme B to ‘Notebook C' are to the little pocket-book which goes back to 1916-17 but was used for notes and suggestions throughout the period of the <I>Last Tales</I> (see I.171). At the beginning of it there is an outline (here called 'C') headed ‘Eärendel's Tale, Tuor's son’, which is in fair harmony with Scheme B:
</p>

Eärendel dwells with Tuor and Irildë<SUP>2</SUP> at Sirion's mouth by the sea (on the Isles of Sirion). Elwing of the Gnomes of Artanor<SUP>3</SUP> flees to them with the Nauglafring. Eärendel and Elwing love one another as boy and girl.

Great love of Eärendel and Tuor. Tuor ages, and Ulmo's conches far out west over the sea call him louder and louder, till one evening he sets sail in his twilit boat with purple sails, Swanwing, Alqarámë.<SUP>4</SUP> Idril sees him too late. Her song on the beach of Sirion.

When he does not return grief of Eärendel and Idril. Eärendel (urged also by Idril who is immortal) desires to set sail and search even to Mandos. <I>[Marginal addition:]</I> Curse of Nauglafring rests on his voyages. Ossë his enemy.

Fiord of the Mermaid. Wreck. Ulmo appears at wreck and saves them, telling them he must go to Kôr and is saved for that.

Elwing's grief when she learns Ulmo's bidding. ‘For no man may tread the streets of Kôr or look upon the places of the Gods and dwell in the Outer Lands in peace again.’

Eärendel departs all the same and is wrecked by the treachery of Ossë and saved only by the Oarni (who love him) with Voronwë and dragged to Falasquil.

Eärendel makes his way back by land with Voronwë. Finds that Idril has vanished.<SUP>5</SUP> His grief. Prays to Ulmo and hears the conches. Ulmo bids him build a new and wonderful ship of the wood of Tuor from Falasquil. Building of Wingilot.

There are four items headed ‘Additions' on this page of the notebook:

Building of Eärámë (Eaglepinion).<BR>Noldoli add their pleading to Ulmo's bidding.<BR>Eärendel surveys the first dwelling of Tuor at Falasquil.<BR>The voyage to Mandos and the Icy Seas.

The outline continues:

Voronwë and Eärendel set sail in Wingilot. Driven south. Dark regions. Fire mountains. Tree-men. Pygmies. Sarqindi or cannibal-ogres.

Driven west. Ungweliantë. Magic Isles. Twilit Isle <I>[sic].</I> Little-heart's gong awakes the Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl.<SUP>6</SUP>

