---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P302.
date: 1984-01-01 05:02
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 302
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
sped to Rôs their capital. There he finds the Cottage of Lost Play, and Lindo and Vairë.
</p>

He tells who he is and whence, and why he has long sought for the isle (by reason of traditions in the kin of Ing), and he begs the Elves to come back to Englaland.

Here begins (as an explanation of why they cannot) the series of stories called the Book of Lost Tales.

In this passage (16) Ælfwine becomes more firmly rooted in English history: he is apparently a man of eleventh-century Wessex - but as in (15) he is of ‘the kin of Ing’. The capital of the Elves of Tol Eressëa is not Kortirion but Rôs, a name now used in a quite different application from that in citation (5), where it was a promontory of the Great Lands.

I have been unable to find any trace of the process whereby the name <I>Lúthien</I> came to be so differently applied afterwards <I>(Lúthien Tinúviel).</I> Another note of this period explains the name quite otherwise: ‘Lúthien or Lúsion was son of Telumaith (Telumektar). Ælfwine loved the sign of Orion, and made the sign, hence the fairies called him Lúthien (Wanderer). ’ There is no other mention of Ælfwine's peculiar association with Orion nor of this interpretation of the name Lúthien; and this seems to be a development that my father did not pursue.

It is convenient to give here the opening passage from the second Scheme for the <I>Lost Tales,</I> referred to above; this plainly belongs to the same time as the rest of these ‘Ælfwine’ notes, when the <I>Tales</I> had been written so far as they ever went within their first framework.

<B>(17)   </B>Ælfwine awakens upon a sandy beach. He listens to the sea, which is far out. The tide is low and has left him.

Ælfwine meets the Elves of Rôs; finds they speak the speech of the English, beside their own sweet tongue. Why they do so - the dwelling of Elves in Luthany and their faring thence and back. They clothe him and feed him, and he sets forth to walk along the island's flowery ways.

The scheme goes on to say that on a summer evening Ælfwine came to Kortirion, and thus differs from (16), where he goes to ‘Rôs their capital’, in which he finds the Cottage of Lost Play. The name Rôs seems to be used here in yet another sense - possibly a name for Tol Eressëa.

<B>(18)   </B>He is sped to Ælfhâm (Elfhome) Eldos where Lindo and Vairë tell him many things: of the making and ancient fashion of the world: of the Gods: of the Elves of Valinor: of Lost Elves and Men: of the Travail of the Gnomes: of Eärendel: of the Faring Forth and the Loss of Valinor: of the disaster of the Faring Forth and the war with evil Men. The retreat to Luthany where Ingwë was king.

