---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P308.
date: 1984-01-01 05:08
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 308
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the Faring Forth has been greatly changed from its nature in citation (6): here, the Trees are to be replanted in Luthany.
</p>

(28) How Ælfwine lands in Tol Eressëa and it seems to him like his own<BR>land made ....... clad in the beauty of a happy dream. How the

folk comprehended [his speech] and learn whence he is come by<BR>the favour of Ulmo. How he is sped to Kortirion.

With these two passages it is interesting to compare (9), the prose preface to <I>Kortirion among the Trees</I>, according to which Kortirion was a city built by the Elves in Tol Eressëa; and when Tol Eressëa was brought across the sea, becoming England, Kortirion was renamed in the tongue of the English <I>Warwick</I> (13). In the new story, Kortirion is likewise an ancient dwelling of the Elves, but with the change in the fundamental conception it is in Luthany; and the Kortirion to which Ælfwine comes in Tol Eressëa is the second of the name (being called ‘after their home in Luthany’). There has thus been a very curious transference, which may be rendered schematically thus:

(I) Kortirion, Elvish dwelling in Tol Eressëa.<BR>Tol Eressëa———> England.<BR>Kortirion = Warwick.

(II) Kortirion, Elvish dwelling in Luthany (> England).<BR>Elves———> Tol Eressëa.

Kortirion (2) in Tol Eressëa named after Kortirion (1)<BR>in Luthany.

On the basis of the foregoing passages, (15) to (28), we may attempt to<BR>construct a narrative taking account of all the essential features:

- March of the Elves of Kôr (called ‘the Faring Forth’, or (by implication in 27) ‘the First Faring Forth’) into the Great Lands, landing in Luthany (25), and the Loss of Valinor (18).

- War with evil Men in the Great Lands (18).

- The Elves retreated to Luthany (not yet an island) where Ing(wë) was king (18, 20).

- Many [but by no means all] of the Elves of Luthany sought back west over the sea and settled in Tol Eressëa; but Elwing was lost (18, 25).

- Places in Tol Eressëa were named after places in Luthany (27).

- Eärendel came to Luthany, taking refuge with Ing(wë) from the hostility of Ossë (20, 23, 24).

- Eärendel gave Ing(wë) <I>limpë</I> to drink (24), <I>or</I> Ing(wë) received <I>limpë</I> from the Elves before Eärendel came (23).

