---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P278.
date: 1984-01-01 04:38
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 278
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
In this final chapter we come to the most difficult (though not, as I hope to show, altogether insoluble) part of the earliest form of the mythology: its end, with which is intertwined the story of Eriol/Ælfwine - and with that, the history and original significance of Tol Eressëa. For its elucidation we have some short pieces of connected narrative, but are largely dependent on the same materials as those that constitute <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I>and the story of Eärendel: scribbled plot-outlines, endlessly varying, written on separate slips of paper or in the pages of the little notebook 'C' (see p. 254). In this chapter there is much material to consider, and for convenience of reference within the chapter I number the various citations consecutively. But it must be said that no device of presentation can much diminish the inherent complexity and obscurity of the matter.
</p>

The fullest account (bald as it is) of the March of the Elves of Kôr and the events that followed is contained in notebook C, continuing on from the point where I left that outline on p. 255, after the coming of the birds from Gondolin, the ‘counsels of the Gods and uproar of the Elves', and the ‘March of the Inwir and Teleri’, with the Solosimpi only agreeing to accompany the expedition on condition that they remain by the sea. The outline continues:

(<B>1)     </B>Coming of the Eldar. Encampment in the Land of Willows of first host. Overwhelming of Noldorin and Valwë. Wanderings of Noldorin with his harp.

Tulkas overthrows Melko in the battle of the Silent Pools. Bound in Lumbi and guarded by Gorgumoth the hound of Mandos.

Release of the Noldoli. War with Men as soon as Tulkas and Noldorin have fared back to Valinor.

Noldoli led to Valinor by Egalmoth and Galdor.

There have been previous references in the <I>Lost Tales</I>to a battle in Tasarinan, the Land of Willows: in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I>(pp. 70, 140), and, most notably, in <I>The Fall of Gondolin (p</I>.154), where when Tuor's sojourn in that land is described there is mention of events that would take place there in the future:

