---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P210.
date: 1984-01-01 03:30
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 210
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
(iv)    <I>The encirclement of Gondolin;<BR>the treachery of Meglin</I> (pp. 164-71)
</p>

The king's daughter was from the first named ‘Idril of the Silver Feet’ (Irildë in the language of the ‘Eldar’, note 22); Meglin (later Maeglin) was his nephew, though the name of his mother (Turgon's sister) Isfin was later changed.

In this section of the narrative the story in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (pp. 241-2) preserved all the essentials of the original version, with one major exception. The wedding of Tuor and Idril took place with the consent and full favour of the king, and there was great joy in Gondolin among all save Maeglin (whose love of Idril is told earlier in <I>The Silmarillion</I>, p. 139, where the barrier of his being close kin to her, not mentioned in the tale, is emphasised). Idril's power of foreseeing and her foreboding of evil to come; the secret way of her devising (but in the tale this led south from the city, and the Eagles' Cleft was in the southern mountains); the loss of Meglin in the hills while seeking for ore; his capture by Orcs, his treacherous purchase of life, and his return to Gondolin to avert suspicion (with the detail of his changed mood thereafter and ‘smiling face’) - all this remained. Much is of course absent (whether rejected or merely passed over) in the succinct account devised for <I>The Silmarillion -</I> where there is no mention, for example, of Idril's dream concerning Meglin, the watch set on him when he went to the hills, the formation on Idril's advice of a guard bearing Tuor's emblem, the refusal of Turgon to doubt the invulnerability of the city and his trust in Meglin, Meglin's discovery of the secret way,\* or the remarkable story that it was Meglin himself who conceived the idea of the monsters of fire and iron and communicated it to Melko - a valuable defector indeed!

The great difference between the versions lies of course in the nature of Melko/Morgoth's knowledge of Gondolin. In the tale, he had by means of a vast army of spies† already discovered it before ever Meglin was captured, and creatures of Melko had found the ‘Way of Escape’ and looked down on Gondolin from the surrounding heights. Meglin's treachery in the old story lay in his giving an exact account of the structure of the city and the preparations made for its defence - and in his advice to Melko concerning the monsters of flame. In <I>The Silmarillion</I>, on the other hand, there is the element, devised much later, of the unconscious betrayal by Húrin to Morgoth's spies of the general region in which Gondolin must be sought, in ‘the mountainous land between

