---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P252.
date: 1984-01-01 04:12
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 252
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The ‘true beginning’ of the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I> was to be the dwelling at Sirion's mouth of the Lothlim (the point at which <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> ends: ‘and fair among the Lothlim Eärendel grows in the house of his father’, pp. 196-7) and the coming there of Elwing (the point at which the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> ends: ‘they departed for ever from the glades of Hithlum and got them to the south towards Sirion's deep waters, and the pleasant lands. And thus did all the fates of the fairies weave then to one strand, and that strand is the great tale of Eärendel; and to that tale's true beginning are we now come’, p. 242). The matter is complicated, however, as will be seen in a moment, by my father's also making the <I>Nauglafring</I> the first part of the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I>.
</p>

But the great tale was never written; and for the story as he then conceived it we are wholly dependent on highly condensed and often contradictory outlines. There are also many isolated notes; and there are the very early Eärendel poems. While the poems can be precisely dated, the notes and outlines can not; and it does not seem possible to arrange them in order so as to provide a clear line of development.

One of the outlines for the <I>Tale of Eärendel</I> is the earlier of the two ‘schemes' for the <I>Lost Tales</I> which are the chief materials for <I>Gilfanon's Tale;</I> and I will repeat here what I said of this in the first part (I.233):

There is no doubt that [the earlier of the two schemes] was composed when the <I>Lost Tales</I> had reached their furthest point of development, as represented by the latest texts and arrangements given in this book. Now when this outline comes to the matter of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> it becomes at once very much fuller, but then contracts again to cursory references for the tales of Tinúviel, Túrin, Tuor; and the Necklace of the Dwarves, and once more becomes fuller for the tale of Eärendel.

This scheme B (as I will continue to call it) provides a coherent if very rough narrative plan, and divides the story into seven parts, of which the first (marked ‘Told’) is ‘The Nauglafring down to the flight of Elwing’. This sevenfold division is referred to by Littleheart at the beginning of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (p. 144):

It is a mighty tale, and seven times shall folk fare to the Tale-fire ere it be rightly told; and so twined is it with those stories of the Nauglafring and of the Elf-march that I would fain have aid in that telling . . .

