---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P256.
date: 1984-01-01 04:16
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 256
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
are absent from the former. In discussing these outlines I follow the divisions of the tale made in B.
</p>

<I>Second part.</I> A little more is told in C of Tuor's departure from Sirion (in B there is no mention of Idril); and there appears the motive of Ossë's hostility to Eärendel and the curse of the Nauglafring as instrumental in his shipwrecks. The place of the first wreck is called the Fiord of the Mermaid. The word ‘them’ rather than ‘him’ in ‘Ulmo saves them, telling them he must go to Kôr’ is certain in the manuscript, which possibly suggests that Idril or Elwing (or both) were with Eärendel.

<I>Third pan.</I> In B Eärendel's second voyage, like the first, is explicitly an attempt to reach Mandos (seeking his father), whereas in C it seems that the second is undertaken rather in order to fulfil Ulmo's bidding that he sail to Kôr (to Elwing's grief). In C Voronwë is named as Eärendel's companion on the second voyage which ended at Falasquil; but the Isle of Seabirds is not mentioned at this point. In C Wingilot is built ‘of the wood of Tuor from Falasquil’; in <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> Tuor's wood was hewed for him by the Noldoli in the forests of Dor Lómin and floated down the hidden river (p. 152).

<I>Fourth pan.</I> Whereas B merely refers to Eärendel's ‘many wanderings, occupying several years' in his quest for Valinor, C gives some glimpses of what they were to be, as Wingilot was driven to the south and then into the west. The encounter with Ungweliantë on the western voyage is curious; it is said in <I>The Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> that ‘Melko held the North and Ungweliant the South' (see I.182, 200).

In C we meet again the Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl (said to be Idril, though this was struck out, note 6) awakened by Littleheart's gong; cf. the account of Littleheart in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> (I.15):

He sailed in Wingilot with Eärendel in that last voyage wherein they sought for Kôr. It was the ringing of this Gong on the Shadowy Seas that awoke the Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl that stands far out to west in the Twilit Isles.

In <I>The Coming of the Valar</I> it is said that the Twilit Isles ‘float’ on the Shadowy Seas ‘and the Tower of Pearl rises pale upon their most western cape’ (I.68; cf. I.125). But there is no other mention in C of Littleheart, Voronwë's son, as a companion of Eärendel, though he was named earlier in the outline, in a rejected phrase, as present at the Mouths of Sirion (see note 5), and in the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> (p. 228) Ailios says that none still living have seen the Nauglafring ‘save only Littleheart son of Bronweg’ (where ‘save only’ is an emendation from ‘not even’).

<I>Fifth and sixth pans.</I> In C we meet the image of Eärendel's shoes

