---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P41.
date: 1984-01-01 00:41
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 41
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
did more than dance, for their deeds afterward were very great, and many tales are there thereof that thou must hear, O Eriol Melinon, upon another time of tale-telling. For those twain it is that stories name i-Cuilwarthon, which is to say the dead that live again, and they became mighty fairies in the lands about the north of Sirion. Behold now all is ended - and doth it like thee?’ But Eriol said: ‘Indeed 'tis a wondrous tale, such as I looked not to hear from the lips of the little maids of Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva,’ but Vëannë answered him: ‘Nay, but I fashioned it not with words of myself; but it is dear to me - and indeed all the children know of the deeds that it relates- and I have learned it by heart, reading it in the great books, and I do not comprehend all that is set therein.’
</p>

‘Neither do I,’ said Eriol - but suddenly cried Ausir: ‘Behold, Eriol, Vëannë has never told thee what befell Huan; nor how he would take no rewards from Tinwelint nor dwell nigh him, but wandered forth again grieving for Tinúviel and Beren. On a time he fell in with Mablung<SUP>15</SUP> who aided in the chase, and was now fallen much to hunting in lonely parts; and the twain hunted together as friends until the days of Glorund the Drake and of Turin Turambar, when once more Huan found Beren and played his part in the great deeds of the Nauglafring, the Necklace of the Dwarves.’

‘Nay, how could I tell all this,’ said Vëannë, ‘for behold it is time for the evening meat already’; and soon after the great gong rang.

As already mentioned (p. 3), there exists a revised version of part of the tale in a typescript (made by my father). This follows the manuscript version closely or very closely on the whole, and in no way alters the style or air of the former; it is therefore unnecessary to give this second version <I>in extenso.</I> But the typescript does in places introduce interesting changes, and these are given below (the pages of the corresponding passages in the manuscript version are given in the margin).

The title in the typescript (which begins with the <I>Link</I> passage already given, pp. 4-7) was originally ‘The Tale of Tynwfiel, Princess of Dor Athro’, which was changed to ‘The Tale of Tinúviel, the Dancer of Doriath’.

(8)      ‘Who then was Tinúviel?’ said Eriol. ‘Knowst thou not,’ said<BR>Ausir, ‘she was the daughter of Singoldo, king of Artanor?’ <B>‘Hush</B>

