---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P243.
date: 1984-01-01 04:03
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 243
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
 6 ‘in the earth’ is an emendation of the original reading ‘on the earth’. 7 ‘damasked in strange wise’, i.e. ‘damascened’, ornamentally inlaid with designs in gold and silver. The word ‘damascened’ is used of the sword of Tinwelint made by the Dwarves, on which were seen images of the wolf-hunt (p. 227), and of Glorfindel's arms (p. 173). 8 The text has ‘Eltas’, but with ‘Ailios’ written above in pencil. Since Ailios appears as the teller at the beginning of the tale, and not as the l result of emendation, ‘Eltas’ here was probably no more than a slip.
</p>

9   ‘save only’ is a later emendation of the original ‘not even’. See p. 256.

10   It is odd that <I>Gwendelin</I> appears here, not <I>Gwenniel</I> as hitherto in

this tale. Since the first part of the tale is in ink over an erased pencil

text, the obvious explanation is that the erased text had <I>Gwendelin</I>

<I></I> and that my father changed this to <I>Gwenniel</I> as he went along,

<I></I> overlooking it in this one instance. But the matter is probably more

 complex - one of those small puzzles with which the texts of the <I>Lost</I>

 <I>Tales</I> abound - for after the manuscript in ink ceases the form

<I>Gwenniel</I> occurs, though once only, and <I>Gwendelin</I> is then used

 for all the rest of the tale. See <I>Changes made to Names,</I> p. 244.

 11     Here the manuscript in ink ends; see p. 221.

<I></I> 12 Against this sentence my father wrote a direction that the story was to be that the Nauglafring caught in the bushes and held the king. 13 A rejected passage in the manuscript here gives an earlier version of the events, according to which it was Gwendelin, not Huan, who i brought the news to Beren:

<I></I> ... and her bitter weeping filled the forest. Now there did Gwendeling <I>[sic]</I> gather to her many of the scattered woodland

 Elves and of them did she hear how matters had fared even as she

 had guessed: how the hunting party had been surrounded and o'erwhelmed by the Nauglath while the Indrafangs and Orcs fell suddenly with death and fire upon all the realm of Tinwelint, and

 not the least host was that of Ufedhin that slew the guardians of the bridge; and it was said that Naugladur had slain Tinwelint

 when he was borne down by numbers, and folk thought Narthseg

 a wild Elf had led the foemen hither, and he had been slain in the

 fighting.

 Then seeing no hope Gwendelin and her companions fared with the utmost speed out of that land of sorrow, even to the kingdom of i-Guilwarthon in Hisilómë, where reigned Beren and Tinúviel her daughter. Now Beren and Tinúviel lived not in any settled abode, nor had their realm boundaries well-marked, and no other messenger save Gwendelin daughter of the Vali had of a surety found those twain the living-dead so soon.

It is clear from the manuscript that the return of Mablung and Huan to Artanor and their presence at the hunt (referred to in general terms at the end of the <I>Tale of Tinúviel,</I> p. 41) was added to the

