---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P295.
date: 1984-01-01 04:55
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 295
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
come. The mention in the typescript text of the <I>Link</I> to the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> (p. 6) of wild men out of the Mountains of the East, <I>which the duke could see from his tower</I>, seems likewise to imply that at this time Eriol's original home was placed in some ‘continental’ region.
</p>

The only suggestion, so far as I can see, that this view might not be correct is found in an early poem with a complex history, texts of which I give here.

The earliest rough drafts of this poem are extant; the original title was ‘The Wanderer's Allegiance’, and it is not clear that it was at first conceived as a poem in three parts. My father subsequently wrote in subtitles on these drafts, dividing the poem into three: <I>Prelude, The Inland City</I>, and <I>The Sorrowful City</I>, with (apparently) an overall title <I>The Sorrowful City</I>; and added a date, March 16-18, 1916. In the only later copy of the whole poem that is extant the overall title is <I>The Town of Dreams and the City of Present Sorrow</I>, with the three parts titled: <I>Prelude</I> (Old English <I>Foresang), The Town of Dreams</I> (Old English <I>Pæt Slǽpende Tún</I>), and <I>The City of Present Sorrow</I> (Old English <I>Seo Wépende Burg</I>). This text gives the dates ‘March 1916, Oxford and Warwick; rewritten Birmingham November 1916’. ‘The Town of Dreams' is Warwick, on the River Avon, and ‘The City of Present Sorrow’ is Oxford, on the Thames, during the First War; there is no evident association of any kind with Eriol or the <I>Lost Tales</I>.

In unknown days my fathers' sires<BR>Came, and from son to son took root<BR>Among the orchards and the river-meads<BR>And the long grasses of the fragrant plain:<BR>Many a summer saw they kindle yellow fires<BR>Of iris in the bowing reeds,<BR>And many a sea of blossom turn to golden fruit<BR>In walled gardens of the great champain.

There daffodils among the ordered trees

Did nod in spring, and men laughed deep and long

Singing as they laboured happy lays

And lighting even with a drinking-song.

There sleep came easy for the drone of bees

Thronging about cottage gardens heaped with flowers;

In love of sunlit goodliness of days

There richly flowed their lives in settled hours-

But that was long ago,

