---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P311.
date: 1984-01-01 05:11
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 311
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
In the event, of all these projections my father only developed the story of </FONT><FONT FACE="Georgia" SIZE="1">Æ</FONT><FONT FACE="Georgia" 
</p>

In the opening <I>Link</I> to the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> Eriol said that ‘many years agone’, when he was a child, his home was ‘in an old town of Men girt with a wall now crumbled and broken, and a river ran thereby over which a castle with a great tower hung’.

My father came of a coastward folk, and the love of the sea that I had never seen was in my bones, and my father whetted my desire, for he told me tales that his father had told him before. Now my mother died in a cruel and hungry siege of that old town, and my father was slain in bitter fight about the walls, and in the end I Eriol escaped to the shoreland of the Western Sea.

Eriol told then of

his wanderings about the western havens, ... of how he was wrecked upon far western islands until at last upon one lonely one he came upon an ancient sailor who gave him shelter, and over a fire within his lonely cabin told him strange tales of things beyond the Western Seas, of the Magic Isles and that most lonely one that lay beyond. . . .

‘Ever after,' said Eriol, ‘did I sail more curiously about the western isles seeking more stories of the kind, and thus it is indeed that after many great voyages I came myself by the blessing of the Gods to Tol Eressëa in the end . . .’

In the typescript version of this <I>Link</I> it is further told that in the town where Eriol's parents lived and died

there dwelt a mighty duke, and did he gaze from the topmost battlements never might he see the bounds of his wide domain, save where far to east the blue shapes of the great mountains lay - yet was that tower held the most lofty that stood in the lands of Men.

The siege and sack of the town were the work of ‘the wild men from the Mountains of the East’.

At the end of the typescript version the boy Ausir assured Eriol that ‘that ancient mariner beside the lonely sea was none other than Ulmo's self, who appeareth not seldom thus to those voyagers whom he loves'; but Eriol did not believe him.

I have given above (pp. 294-5) reasons for thinking that in ‘the <I>Eriol</I> story’ this tale of his youth was not set in England.

Turning to the passages concerned with the later, <I>Ælfwine</I> story, we learn from (15) that Ælfwine dwelt in the South-west of England and

