---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P253.
date: 1984-01-01 04:13
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 253
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
If the six parts following the <I>Tale of the Nauglafring</I> were each to be of<BR>comparable length, the whole <I>Tale of Eärendel</I> would have been some- <BR>where near half the length of all the tales that were in fact written; but my<BR>father never afterwards returned to it on any ample scale.<BR>I give now the concluding part of Scheme B.
</p>

Tale of Eärendel begins, with which is interwoven the Nauglafring and the March of the Elves. For further details see Notebook C.\*

<I>First part</I>. The tale of the Nauglafring down to the flight of Elwing.

<I>Second part</I>. The dwelling at Sirion. Coming thither of Elwing, and the love of her and Eärendel as girl and boy. Ageing of Tuor - his secret sailing after the conches of Ulmo in Swanwing.

Eärendel sets sail to the North to find Tuor, and if needs be Mandos. Sails in Eärámë. Wrecked. Ulmo appears. Saves him, bidding him sail

to Kôr - ‘for for this hast thou been brought out of the Wrack of

Gondolin’.

<I>Third part</I>. Second attempt of Eärendel to Mandos. Wreck of Falasquil and rescue by the Oarni.<SUP>1</SUP> He sights the Isle of Seabirds ‘whither do all the birds of all waters come at whiles'. Goes back by land to Sirion.

Idril has vanished (she set sail at night). The conches of Ulmo call Eärendel. Last farewell of Elwing. Building of Wingilot.

<I>Fourth part</I>. Eärendel sails for Valinor. His many wanderings, occupying several years.

<I>Fifth part</I>. Coming of the birds of Gondolin to Kôr with tidings. Uproar of the Elves. Councils of the Gods. March of the Inwir (death of Inwë), Teleri, and Solosimpi.

Raid upon Sirion and captivity of Elwing.

Sorrow and wrath of Gods, and a veil dropped between Valmar and Kôr, for the Gods will not destroy it but cannot bear to look upon it.

Coming of the Eldar. Binding of Melko. Faring to Lonely Isle. Curse of the Nauglafring and death of Elwing.

<I>Sixth part</I>. Eärendel reaches Kôr and finds it empty. Fares home in sorrow (and sights Tol Eressëa and the fleet of the Elves, but a great wind and darkness carries him away, and he misses his way and has a voyage eastward).

Arriving at length at Sirion finds it empty. Goes to the ruins of Gondolin. Hears of tidings. Sails to Tol Eressëa. Sails to the Isle of Seabirds.

