---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P345.
date: 1984-01-01 05:45
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 345
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
while; nigh to Tavrobel.’ <I>Amrvg, amrod =</I> ‘wanderer’, ‘wandering’, from <I>amra-</I> ‘go up and down, live in the mountains, wander’; <I>see Amon Gwareth)</I>.
</p>

<B>Laiqalassë   </B>See I.267 <I>(Tári-laisi),</I> I.254 <I>(GarLossion)</I>.

<B>Laurundo    </B>See <I>Glorund</I>.

<B>Legolas    </B>See <I>Laiqalassë</I>.

<B>Lindeloktë   </B>See I.258 <I>(Lindelos)</I>.

<B>Linwē Tinto    </B>See I.269 <I>(TinwëLinto)</I>.

<B>Lókë   </B><I>See Foalókë</I>.

Lôs   See I.254 <I>(Gar Lossion).</I> The later form <I>loth</I> does not appear in GL (which has however <I>lothwing</I> ‘foamflower’). NFG has <I>‘Lôs</I> is a flower and in Eldarissa <I>losse</I> which is a rose’ (all after the word ‘flower’ struck out).

<B>Lósengriol   </B>As with <I>lôs,</I> the later form <I>lothengriol</I> does not appear in GL. <I>Lósengriol</I> is translated ‘lily of the valley’ in GL, which gives the Gnomish words <I>eng</I> ‘smooth, level’, <I>enga</I> ‘plain, vale’, <I>engri</I> ‘a level’, <I>engriol</I> ‘vale-like; of the vale’. NFG says <I>‘Eng</I> is a plain or vale and <I>Engriol</I> that which liveth or dwelleth therein’, and translates <I>Lósengriol</I> ‘flower of the vale or lily of the valley’.

<B>Los   ‘lóriol </B>(changed from <I>Los Glóriol;</I> the Golden Flower of Gondolin). See I.254 <I>(Gar Lossion),</I> and for <I>glóriol</I> ‘golden’ see I.258 <I>(Laurelin)</I>.

<B>Loth, Lothengriol    </B>See <I>Lôs, Lósengriol</I>.

<B>Lothlim    </B>See <I>Lôs</I> and <I>Gondothlim.</I> The entry in NFG reads: <I>‘Lothlim</I> being for <I>Loslim</I> meaneth folk of the flower, and is that name taken by the Exiles of Gondolin (which city they had called <I>Lôs</I> aforetime).’

<B>Mablung    </B>For <I>mab</I> ‘hand’ see <I>Ermabwed.</I> The second element is <I>lung</I> ‘heavy; grave, serious’; related words are <I>lungra-</I> ‘weigh, hang heavy’, <I>luntha</I> ‘balance, weigh’, <I>lunthang</I> ‘scales'.

<B>Malkarauki    </B>See I.250 <I>(Balrog)</I>.

<B>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva </B>See 1.260 and add: a late entry in G L gives the Gnomish name, <I>Bara DhairHaithin,</I> the Cottage of Lost Play; also <I>daira-</I> ‘play’ (with <I>dainven</I> ‘mirth’, etc.), and <I>haim or haithin</I> ‘gone, departed, lost’ (with <I>haitha-</I> ‘go, walk’, etc.). Cf. <I>Dairon</I>.

<B>Mathusdor  </B>(Aryador, Hisilómë). In GL are given <I>math</I> ‘dusk’, <I>mathrin</I> ‘dusky’, <I>mathusgi</I> ‘twilight’, <I>mathwen</I> ‘evening’. See <I>Umboth-muilin</I>.

<B>Mavwin    </B>A noun <I>mavwin</I> ‘wish’ in GL was struck out, but related words allowed to stand: <I>mav-</I> ‘like’, <I>mavra</I> ‘eager after’, <I>mavri</I> ‘appetite’, <I>mavrin</I> ‘delightful, desirable’, <I>mavros</I> ‘desire’, <I>maus</I> ‘pleasure; pleasant’. Mavwin's name in Qenya, <I>Mavoinë,</I> is not in QL, unless it is to be equated with <I>maivoinë</I> ‘great longing’.

<B>Meleth    </B>A noun <I>meleth</I> ‘love’ is found in GL; see I.262 <I>(Nessa)</I>.

<B>Melian,  Melinon,  Melinir    </B>None  of  these   names  occur  in  the

