---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P344.
date: 1984-01-01 05:44
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 344
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<B>Indorion</B>See <I>go-</I>. QL gives <I>yô, yond-</I> as poetic words for ‘son’, adding: ‘but very common as <I>-ion</I> in patronymics (and hence practically = “descendant”)’; also <I>yondo</I> ‘male descendant, usually (great) grandson’ (cf. Eärendel's name <I>Gon Indor</I>). Cf. <I>Eärendilyon</I>.
</p>

<B>Indrafang</B>GL has <I>indra</I> ‘long (also used of time)’, <I>indraluin</I> ‘long ago’; also <I>indravang</I> ‘a special name of the <I>nauglath</I> or dwarves', on which see p. 247. These forms were changed later to <I>in(d)ra, in(d)rafang, in(d)raluin lidhraluin</I>.

An original entry in GL was <I>bang</I> ‘beard’ = Qenya <I>vanga</I>, but this was struck out; and another word with the same meaning as <I>Indravang</I> was originally entered as <I>Bangasur</I> but changed to <I>Fangasur</I>. The second element of this is <I>sûr</I> ‘long, trailing’, Qenya <I>sóra</I>, and a later addition here is <I>Surfang</I> ‘a long-beard, a <I>naugla</I> or <I>inrafang’</I>. Cf. <I>Fangluin</I>, and later <I>Fangorn</I> ‘Treebeard’.

<B>Irildë </B>See <I>Idril</I>.

<B>Isfin</B>NFG has this entry: <I>‘Isfin</I> was the sister of Turgon Lord of Gondolin, whom Eöl at length wedded; and it meaneth either “snow-locks” or “exceeding-cunning”.’ Long afterwards my father, noting that <I>Isfin</I> was ‘derived from the earliest (1916) form of <I>The Fall of Gondolin’</I>, said that the name was ‘meaningless’; but with the second element cf. <I>finn</I> ‘lock of hair’ (see <I>Glorfindel</I>) or <I>fint</I> ‘clever’, <I>finthi</I> ‘idea, notion’, etc. (see I.253 (<I>Finwë)</I>).

<B>Ivárë </B>GL gives <I>lor</I> ‘the famous “piper of the sea”, Qenya <I>Ivárë.’</I>

<B>íverin </B>A late entry in GL gives A<I>ivrin or Aivrien</I> ‘an island off the west coast of Tol Eressëa, Qenya <I>Íwerin</I> or <I>Iverindor.’</I> QL has <I>Íverind-</I> ‘Ireland’.

<B>Karkaras</B>In GL this is mentioned as the Qenya form; the Gnomish name of ‘the great wolf-warden of Belca's door’ was <I>Carcaloth</I> or <I>Carcamoth</I>, changed to <I>Carchaloth, Carchamoth</I>. The first element is <I>care</I> ‘jag, point, fang’; QL under root KRKR has <I>karka</I> ‘fang, tooth, tusk’, <I>karkassë, karkaras</I> ‘row of spikes or teeth’.

<B>Kosmoko</B>See <I>Gothmog</I>.

<B>Kurûki </B>See I.269 (<I>TolliKuruvar</I>).

<B>Ladwen-na-Dhaideloth</B>‘Heath of the Sky-roof. See <I>Dor-na-Dhaideloth</I>. GL gives <I>ladwen</I> ‘(i) levelness, flatness; (2) a plain, heath; (3) a plane; (4) surface.’ Other words are <I>ladin</I> ‘level, smooth; fair, equable’ (cf. <I>Tumladin), lad</I> ‘a level’ (cf. <I>mablad</I> ‘palm of hand’ mentioned under <I>Ermabwed), lada-</I> ‘to smooth out, stroke, soothe, beguile’, and <I>ladwinios</I> ‘equity’. There are also words <I>bladwen</I> ‘a plain’ (see I.264 (<I>Palúrien)</I>), and <I>fladwen</I> ‘meadow’ (with <I>flad</I> ‘sward’ and <I>Fladweth Amrod (Amrog</I>) ‘Nomad's Green’, ‘a place in <I>Tol Erethrin</I> where Eriol sojourned a

