---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P217.
date: 1984-01-01 03:37
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 217
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Indor</I> ‘was the name of the father of Tuor's father, wherefore did the Gnomes name Eärendel <I>Gon Indor</I> and the Elves <I>Indorildo</I> or <I>Indorion.’</I>
</p>

<I>Legolas</I> ‘or Green-leaf was a man of the Tree, who led the exiles over<BR>Tumladin in the dark, being night-sighted, and he liveth still in Tol<BR>Eressëa named by the Eldar there <I>Laiqalassë</I>; but the book of<BR>Rúmil saith further hereon.’<BR>(See I.267, entry <I>Tári-Laisi.</I>)

§3   <I>Miscellaneous Matters</I>

(i)    <I>The geography of The Fall of Gondolin</I>

I have noticed above (p. 205) that in Tuor's journey all along the coast of what was afterwards Beleriand to the mouths of Sirion there is an unquestionable resemblance to the later map, in the trend of the coast from north-south to east-west. It is also said that after he left Falasquil ‘the distant hills marched ever nearer to the margin of the sea’, and that the spurs of the Iron Mountains ‘run even to the sea’ (pp. 152-3). These statements can likewise be readily enough related to the map, where the long western extension of the Mountains of Shadow (Ered Wethrin), forming the southern border of Nevrast, reached the sea at Vinyamar (for the equation of the Mountains of Iron and the Mountains of Shadow see I.111-12).

Arlisgion, ‘the place of reeds' (p. 153) above the mouths of Sirion, survived in Lisgardh ‘the land of reeds at the Mouths of Sirion’ in the later <I>Tuor</I> (p. 34); and the feature that the great river passed underground for a part of its course goes back to the earliest period, as does that of the Meres of Twilight, Aelin-uial (‘the Pools of Twilight’, p. 195). There is here however a substantial difference in the tale from <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 122), where Aelin-uial was the region of great pools and marshes where ‘the flood of Sirion was stayed’; <I>south of the Meres</I> the river ‘fell from the north in a mighty fall . . . and then he plunged suddenly underground into great tunnels that the weight of his falling waters delved’. Here on the other hand the Pools of Twilight are clearly <I>below</I> the ‘cavern of the Tumultuous Winds' (never mentioned later) where Sirion dives underground. But the Land of Willows, below the region of Sirion's underground passage, is placed as it was to remain.

Thus the view I expressed (p. 141) of the geographical indications in the <I>Tale of Turambar</I> can be asserted also of those of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>.

(ii)     <I>Ulmo and the other Valar in The Fall of Gondolin</I>

In the speech of Tuor inspired by Ulmo that he uttered at his first meeting with Turgon (p. 161) he said: ‘the hearts of the Valar are

