---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P261.
date: 1984-01-01 04:21
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 261
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Apart from the fuller account of Tuor's departure from the mouths of Sirion, not much can be learned from this - it is too condensed. But even allowing for speed and compression, there seem to be essential differences from B and C. Thus in this outline (E) Elwing, as it appears, comes to Sirion at a later point in the story, after the departure of Tuor; but the raid and capture of Elwing seems to take place at an earlier point, while Eärendel is on his way back to Sirion from his shipwreck in the North (not, as in B and C, while he is on the great voyage in Wingilot that took him to Kôr). Here, it seems, there was to be only one northward journey, ending in the shipwreck of Earámë/Earum near Falasquil. Though it cannot be demonstrated, I incline to think that E was subsequent to B and C: partly because the reduction of two northward voyages ending in shipwreck to one seems more likely than the other way about, and partly because of the form <I>Tûr, </I>which, though it did not survive, replaced <I>Tuor </I>for a time (p. 148).
</p>

One or two other points may be noticed in this outline. The great spider, called <I>Ungweliantë </I>in C but here <I>Wirilóntë </I>(‘Gloomweaver’, see I.152), is here encountered by Eärendel in the far South, not as in C on his westward voyage: see p. 256. Elwing in this version comes to Eärendel as a seabird (as she does in <I>The Silmarillion, </I>p. 247), which is not said in C and even seems to be denied.

Another isolated page (associated with the poem ‘The Bidding of the Minstrel’, see pp. 269-70 below) gives a very curious account of Eärendel's great voyage:

Eärendel's boat goes through North. Iceland. <I>[Added in margin: </I>back of North Wind.] Greenland, and the wild islands: a mighty wind and crest of great wave carry him to hotter climes, to back of West Wind. Land of strange men, land of magic. The home of Night. The Spider. He escapes from the meshes of Night with a few comrades, sees a great mountain island and a golden city <I>[added in margin: </I>Kôr] - wind blows him southward. Tree-men, Sun-dwellers, spices, fire-mountains, red sea: Mediterranean (loses his boat (travels afoot through wilds of Europe?)) or Atlantic.\* Home. Waxes aged. Has a new boat builded. Bids adieu to his north land. Sails west again to the lip of the world, just as the Sun is diving into the sea. He sets sail upon the sky and returns no more to earth.

The golden city was Kôr and he had caught the music of the Solosimpë, and returns to find it, only to find that the fairies have departed from Eldamar. See little book. Dusted with diamond dust climbing the deserted streets of Kôr.

