---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P208.
date: 1984-01-01 03:28
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 208
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
eternally without abating’) to Inwë and Nólemë at the time of the building of Kôr, each being given a shoot of either Tree, is mentioned in <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> (1.123), and in <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> there is a reference to the uprooting of those given to Nólemë, which ‘were gone no one knew whither, and more had there never been’ (I.213).
</p>

But a deep underlying shift in the history of Gondolin separates the earlier and later accounts: for whereas in the <I>Lost Tales</I> (and later) Gondolin was only discovered <I>after</I> the Battle of Unnumbered Tears when the host of Turgon retreated southwards down Sirion, in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it had been found by Turgon of Nevrast more than four hundred years before (442 years before Tuor came to Gondolin in the Fell Winter after the fall of Nargothrond in the year 495 of the Sun). In the tale my father imagined a great age passing <I>between</I> the Battle of Unnumbered Tears and the destruction of the city (‘unstaying labour <I>through ages of years</I> had not sufficed to its building and adornment whereat folk travailed yet’, p. 163); afterwards, with radical changes in the chronology of the First Age after the rising of the Sun and Moon, this period was reduced to no more than (in the last extant version of ‘The Tale of Years' of the First Age) thirty-eight years. But the old conception can still be felt in the passage on p. 240 of <I>The Silmarillion</I> describing the withdrawal of the people of Gondolin from all concern with the world outside after the Nirnaeth Arnoediad, with its air of long years passing.\*

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> it is explicit that Turgon devised the city to be ‘a memorial of Tirion upon Túna’ (p. 125), and it became ‘as beautiful as a memory of Elven Tirion’ (p. 240). This is not said in the old story, and indeed in the <I>Last Tales</I> Turgon himself had never known Kôr (he was born in the Great Lands after the return of the Noldoli from Valinor, I.167, 238, 240); one may feel nonetheless that the tower of the King, the fountains and stairs, the white marbles of Gondolin embody a recollection of Kôr as it is described in <I>The Coming of the Elves and the Making of</I> Kôr (I.122-3).

I have said above that ‘despite the frequent reminder that Ulmo was guiding Tuor as the instrument of his designs, the essential element in the later legend of the arms left for him by Turgon on Ulmo's instruction is lacking’. Now however we seem to see the germ of this conception in Turgon's words to Tuor (p. 161): ‘Thy conning was set in our books of wisdom, and it has been written that there would come to pass many great things in the homes of the Gondothlim whenso thou faredst hither. ’ Yet it is clear from Tuor's reply that as yet the establishment of Gondolin was no part of Ulmo's design, since ‘there have come to the ears of Ulmo whispers of your dwelling and your hill of vigilance against the evil of Melko, and he is glad’.

\* Of the story of Gondolin from Tuor's coming to its destruction my father wrote nothing after the version of ‘The Silmarillion’ made (very probably) in 1930; and in this the old conception of its history was still present. This was the basis for much of Chapter 23 in the published work.

