---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.02】P294.
date: 1984-01-01 04:54
categories: ["Vol.02 The Book of Lost Tales II"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 294
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
(<B>14) </B>From very rough jottings it can be made out that Eriol was to be so tormented with home longing that he set sail from Tol Eressëa with his son Heorrenda, against the command of Meril-i-Turinqi (see the passage cited on p. 284 from <I>The Chaining of Melko);</I>but his purpose in doing so was also ‘to hasten the Faring Forth’, which he ‘preached’ in the lands of the East. Tol Eressëa was drawn back to the confines of the Great Lands, but at once hostile peoples named the <I>Guiðlin</I>and the <I>Brithonin</I>(and in one of these notes also the <I>Rúmhoth</I>,Romans) invaded the island. Eriol died, but his sons Hengest and Horsa conquered the Guiðlin. But because of Eriol's disobedience to the command of Meril, in going back before the time for the Faring Forth was ripe, ‘all was cursed’; and the Elves faded before the noise and evil of war. An isolated sentence refers to ‘a strange prophecy that a man of good will, yet through longing after the things of Men, may bring the Faring Forth to nought’.
</p>

Thus the part of Eriol was to become cardinal in the history of the Elves; but there is no sign that these ideas ever got beyond this exploratory stage.

I have said that I think that the reconstruction given above (‘the <I>Eriol</I>story’) is in essentials the conception underlying the framework of the <I>Last Tales</I>.This is both for positive and negative reasons: positive, because he is there still named <I>Eriol</I>(see p. 300), and also because Gilfanon, who enters (replacing Ailios) late in the development of the <I>Tales</I>,appears also in citation (5) above, which is one of the main contributors to this reconstruction; negative, because there is really nothing to contradict what is much the easiest assumption. There is no explicit statement anywhere in the <I>Lost Tales</I>that Eriol came from England. At the beginning (I.13) he is only ‘a traveller from far countries'; and the fact that the story he told to Vëannë of his earlier life (pp. 4-7) agrees well with other accounts where his home is explicitly in England does no more than show that the story remained while the geography altered - just as the ‘black coasts' of his home survived in later writing to become the western coasts of Britain, whereas the earliest reference to them is the etymology of <I>Angol</I>‘iron cliffs' (his own name, = <I>Eriol</I>,from the land ‘between the seas', Angeln in the Danish peninsula, whence he came: see I.252). There is in fact a very early, rejected, sketch of Eriol's life in which essential features of the same story are outlined - the attack on his father's dwelling (in this case the destruction of Eoh's castle by his brother Beorn, see citation (10)), Eriol's captivity and escape - and in this note it is said that Eriol afterwards ‘wandered over the wilds of the Central Lands to the Inland Sea, <I>Wendelsæ</I>[Old English, the Mediterranean], and hence to the shores of the Western Sea’, whence his father had originally

