---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P279.
date: 1983-01-01 04:39
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 279
characters: 
tags: ['Ǽsc', 'Askr', 'Dark Elves', 'Embla', 'Ermon', 'Fairies', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Goblins', 'Gondolin', 'The Fall of Gondolin', 'Gongs', 'Gylfaginning', 'Great March', 'Great Journey', 'Hisildi', 'Hisilómë', 'Humarni', 'Kaliondi', 'Kaukareldar', 'Lómëarni', 'Lost Elves', 'Men']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
lost from the great journey and wandered in Hisilómë (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p127">p. 127</a>).
</p>

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p266) In the tale the ‘fairies' of Tû's dominion (i.e. the Dark Elves) are given the name <I>Hisildi</I>, the twilight people; in outlines A and B, in addition to <I>Hisildi</I>, other names are given: <I>Humarni, Kaliondi, Lómëarni</I>.

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p269) Cf. also Sador's words to Turin in his boyhood (<I>Unfinished Tales</I> p. 61): ‘A darkness lies behind us, and out of it few tales have come. The fathers of our fathers may have had things to tell, but they did not tell them. Even their names are forgotten. The Mountains stand between us and the life that they came from, flying from no man now knows what. ’

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p269) Cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 104: ‘It is told that ere long they met Dark Elves in many places, and were befriended by them; and Men became the companions and disciples in their childhood of these ancient folk, wanderers of the Elven-race who never set out upon the paths to Valinor, and knew of the Valar only as a rumour and a distant name. ’

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p271) Above <I>Ermon</I> is written, to all appearance, the Old English <I>Ǽsc</I> (‘ash’). It seems conceivable that this is an anglicizing of Old Norse <I>Askr</I> (‘ash’), in the northern mythology the name of the first man, who with the first woman <I>(Embla</I>) were made by the Gods out of two trees that they found on the seashore (Völuspá strophe 17; <I>Snorra Edda, Gylfagin-ning</I> §8).

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p272) The text has here the bracketed word ‘(Gongs)’. This might be thought to be a name for the <I>Kaukareldar</I> or ‘false-fairies', but in the Gnomish word-list <I>Gong</I> is defined as ‘one of a tribe of the Orcs, a goblin’.

[11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p274) The cutting out of Nólemë's heart by the Orcs, and its recapture by Turgon his son, is referred to in an isolated early note, which says also that Turgon encased it in gold; and the emblem of the King's Folk in Gondolin, the Scarlet Heart, is mentioned in the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>.

[12]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p276) Cf. [p. 186]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186): ‘Turondo son of Nólemë was not yet upon the Earth.’ <I>Turgon</I> was the Gnomish name of <I>Turondo</I> ([p. 124]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p124)). In the later story Turgon was a leader of the Noldor from Valinor.

[13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p276) After the story was changed, and the founding of Gondolin was placed far earlier, the concluding part of <I>The Silmarillion</I> was never brought into harmony; and this was a main source of difficulty in the preparation of the published work.

