---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P116. Over Old Hills and Far Away
date: 1983-01-01 01:56
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 116
characters: 
tags: ["poem", 'Elvenhome', 'Fay(s)', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Old English', 'Over Old Hills and Far Away', 'Oxford', 'Stafford', 'Staffordshire', 'Tinfang Warble']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>11</SUB> to a flame of flickering blue.

<SUB>12</SUB> He pipes not to me,

<SUB>13</SUB> He pipes not to thee,

<SUB>14</SUB> He whistles for none of you.

<SUB>15</SUB> His music is his own,

<SUB>16</SUB> The tunes of Tinfang Warble!

<BR>

In the earliest version Tinfang is called a ‘leprawn’, and in the early glossary of the Gnomish speech he is a ‘fay’. The second poem is entitled <I>Over Old Hills and Far Away</I>. This exists in five texts, of which the earliest bears an Old English title as well (of the same meaning): <I>3eond fyrne beorgas</I> 7 <I>heonan feor</I>. Notes by my father state that it was written at Brocton Camp in Staffordshire between December 1915 and February 1916, and rewritten at Oxford in 1927. The final version given here differs in many details of wording and in places whole lines from earlier versions, from which I note at the end a few interesting readings.

<I>Over Old Hills and Far Away</I>

<SUB>1</SUB> It was early and still in the night of June,

<SUB>2</SUB> And few were the stars, and far was the moon,

<SUB>3</SUB> The drowsy trees drooping, and silently creeping

<SUB>4</SUB> Shadows woke under them while they were sleeping.

<SUB>5</SUB> I stole to the window with stealthy tread

<SUB>6</SUB> Leaving my white and unpressed bed;

<SUB>7</SUB> And something alluring, aloof and queer,

<SUB>8</SUB> Like perfume of flowers from the shores of the mere

<SUB>9</SUB> That in Elvenhome lies, and in starlit rains

<SUB>10</SUB> Twinkles and flashes, came up to the panes

<SUB>11</SUB> Of my high lattice-window. Or was it a sound?

<SUB>12</SUB> I listened and marvelled with eyes on the ground.

<SUB>13</SUB> For there came from afar a filtered note

<SUB>14</SUB> Enchanting sweet, now clear, now remote,

<SUB>15</SUB> As clear as a star in a pool by the reeds,

<SUB>16</SUB> As faint as the glimmer of dew on the weeds.

<SUB>17</SUB> Then I left the window and followed the call

<SUB>18</SUB> Down the creaking stairs and across the hall

