---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P227.
date: 1983-01-01 03:47
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 227
characters: 
tags: ['Arda', 'Erinti', 'Eriol', 'Estë', 'Fionwë', 'Fionwë-Úrion', 'Fui', 'Lórien', 'Moon, The', 'Man in the Moon', 'Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva', 'King of the Moon', 'Qorinómi, Tale of', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Silmo', 'Silpion', 'Stars', 'Sun, The', 'Telimpë']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of the Trees and of the new lights. Again, in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it is Varda who decides their motions, and she changes these from her first plan at the plea of Lórien and Estë, whereas here it is Lórien's very distress at the coming of Sunlight that leads to the last blossoming of Silpion and the making of the Moon. The Valar indeed play different roles throughout; and here far greater importance attaches to the acts of Vána and Lórien, whose relations with the Sun and Moon are at once deeper and more explicit than they afterwards became, as they had been with the Trees (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p71">p. 71</a>); in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it was Nienna who watered the Trees with her tears (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p98">p. 98</a>). In <I>The Silmarillion</I> the Sun and Moon move nearer to Arda than ‘the ancient stars' (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p99">p. 99</a>), but here they move at quite different levels in the firmament.
</p>

But a feature in which later compression can be certainly discerned is the elaborate description in the tale of the Moon as ‘an island of pure glass’, ‘a shimmering isle’, with little lakes of the light from Telimpë bordered with shining flowers and a crystalline cup amidmost in which was set the Moon-flower; only from this is explicable the reference in <I>The Silmarillion</I> to Tilion's steering ‘the island of the Moon’. The aged Elf Uolë Kúvion (whom ‘some indeed have named the Man in the Moon’) seems almost to have strayed in from another conception; his presence gives difficulty in any case, since we have just been told ([p. 215]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p215)) that Silmo could not sail in the Moonship because he was not of the children of the air and could not ‘cleanse his being of its earthward-ness’. — An isolated heading ‘Uolë and Erinti’ in the little pocket-book used among things for suggestions of stories to be told (see [p. 191]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p191)) no doubt implies that a tale was preparing on the subject of Uolë; cf. the Tale of Qorinómi concerning Urwendi and Erinti's brother Fionwë ([p. 243]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p243)). No traces of these tales are to be found and they were presumably never written. Another note in the pocket-book calls Uolë Mikúmi (the earlier name of Uolë Kúvion, see [p. 221]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p221)) ‘King of the Moon’; and a third refers to a poem ‘The Man in the Moon’ which is to be sung by Eriol, ‘who says he will sing them a song of a legend touching Uolë Mikúmi as Men have it’. My father wrote a poem about the Man in the Moon in March 1915, but if it was this that he was thinking of including it would have startled the company of Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva —

