---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P269.
date: 1983-01-01 04:29
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 269
characters: 
tags: ['Dark Elves', 'Dwarves', 'Elmir', 'Ermon', 'Fairies', 'Fangli', 'Fankil', 'Fay(s)', 'Fúkil', 'Goblins', 'Gnomes', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'lost kindreds', 'Melko', 'child of Melko', 'Men', 'Murmenalda', 'Nuin', 'Father of Speech', 'Palisor', 'Palúrien', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Sun, The', 'Targe the llkorin', 'Tû', 'Úvanimor', 'Fortress of the North']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
lies behind us,” Bëor said; “and we have turned our backs upon it, and we do not desire to return thither even in thought.” <SUP><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279">7</a></SUP>
</p>

The Awakening of Men (according to the later outline)

Here it is told at the beginning of the narrative that Melko's Úvanimor had escaped when the Gods broke the Fortress of the North, and were wandering in the forests; Fankil servant of Melko dwelt uncaptured in the world. (Fankil=Fangli / Fúkil of A and B. In C he is called ‘child of Melko’. Fankil has been mentioned at an earlier point in D, when at the time of the Awakening of the Elves ‘Fankil and many dark shapes escaped into the world’; see [p. 114]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p114), note 3.)

Nuin ‘Father of Speech’, who went again and again to Murmenalda despite the warnings of Tû (which are not here specified), woke Ermon and Elmir, and taught them speech and many things else. Ermon and Elmir alone of Mankind saw the Sun arising in the West, and the seeds of Palúrien bursting forth into leaf and bud. The hosts of Men came forth as sleepy children, raising a dumb clamour at the Sun; they followed it westward when it returned, and were grievously afraid of the first Night. Nuin and Ermon and Elmir taught them speech.

Men grew in stature, and gathered knowledge of the Dark Elves,<SUP>[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279)</SUP> but Tû faded before the Sun and hid in the bottomless caverns. Men dwelt in the centre of the world and spread thence in all directions; and a very great age passed.

Fankil with the Dwarves and Goblins went among Men, and bred estrangement between them and the Elves; and many Men aided the Dwarves. The folk of Ermon alone stood by the fairies in the first war of Goblins and Elves (Goblins is here an emendation from Dwarves, and that from Men), which is called the War of Palisor. Nuin died at the hands of the Goblins through the treachery of Men. Many kindreds of Men were driven to the eastern deserts and the southern forests, whence came dark and savage peoples.

The hosts of Tareg the Ilkorin marched North-west hearing a rumour of the Gnomes; and many of the lost kindreds joined him.

