---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P271.
date: 1983-01-01 04:31
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 271
characters: 
tags: ['Angamandi', 'Asgon', 'Ermon', 'Fëanor', 'Fingolma', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Sons of Fëanor', 'Oath of Fëanor', 'Gorfalon', 'Gorfalong', 'Gnomes', 'Hisilómë', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'Land of Shadow(s)', 'Maidros', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Noldoli', 'Palisor']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and had been lost on the march from Palisor. The Gnomes learned from them of the coming of Men and of the Battle of Palisor; and they told the Ilkorins of the tidings in Valinor, and of their search for the jewels.
</p>

Now appears for the first time Maidros son of Fëanor (previously, in the tale of <I>The Theft of Melko</I>, the name was given to Fëanor's grandfather, pp. [161]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p161), [175]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p175)). Maidros, guided by Ilkorins, led a host into the hills, either ‘to seek for the jewels' (A), or ‘to search the dwellings of Melko’ (B — this should perhaps read ‘search for the dwellings of Melko’, the reading of C), but they were driven back with slaughter from the doors of Angamandi; and Maidros himself was taken alive, tortured — because he would not reveal the secret arts of the Noldoli in the making of jewels — and sent back to the Gnomes maimed. (In A, which still had Nólemë rather than Fëanor die in the Waters of Asgon, it was Fëanor himself who led the host against Melko, and it was Fëanor who was captured, tortured, and maimed.)

Then the Seven Sons of Fëanor swore an oath of enmity for ever against any that should hold the Silmarils. (This is the first appearance of the Seven Sons, and of the Oath, though that Fëanor had sons is mentioned in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>, [p. 214]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p214).)

The hosts of Melko now approached the camp of the Gnomes by Sirion, and they fled south, and dwelt then at Gorfalon, where they made the acquaintance of Men, both good and bad, but especially those of Ermon's folk; and an embassy was sent to Túvo, to Tinwelint (i.e. Thingol, see [p. 143]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p143)), and to Ermon.<SUP>[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279)</SUP> A great host was arrayed of Gnomes, Ilkorins, and Men, and Fingolma (Nólemë) marshalled it in the Valley of the Fountains, afterwards called the Vale of Weeping Waters. But Melko himself went into the tents of Men and beguiled them, and some of them fell treacherously on the rear of the Gnomes even as Melko's host attacked them; others Melko persuaded to abandon their friends, and these, together with others that he led astray with mists and wizardries, he beguiled into the Land of Shadows. (With this cf. the reference in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> to the shutting of Men in Hisilómë by Melko, p. 127.)

Then took place ‘the terrible Battle of Unnumbered Tears'.

