---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】xiv.
date: 1983-01-01 00:00:14
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["FOREWORD"]
page_num: xiv
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
was threefold. I could withhold it indefinitely from publication, on the ground that the work was incomplete and incoherent between its parts. I could accept the nature of the work as it stood, and, to quote my Foreword to the book, ‘attempt to present the diversity of the materials — to show “The Silmarillion” as in truth a continuing and evolving creation extending over more than half a century’; and that, as I have said in <I>Unfinished Tales</I> (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p1">p. 1</a>), would have entailed ‘a complex of divergent texts interlinked by commentary’ — a far larger undertaking than those words suggest. In the event, I chose the third course, ‘to work out a single text, selecting and arranging in such a way as seemed to me to produce the most coherent and internally self-consistent narrative’. Having come, at length, to that decision, all the editorial labour of myself and of Guy Kay who assisted me was directed to the end that my father had stated in the letter of 1963: ‘The legends have to be worked over . . . and made consistent; and they have to be integrated with the L.R. ’ Since the object was to present ‘The Silmarillion’ as ‘a completed and cohesive entity’ (though that could not in the nature of the case be entirely successful), it followed that there would be in the published book no exposition of the complexities of its history.
</p>

Whatever may be thought of this matter, the result, which I by no means foresaw, has been to add a further dimension of obscurity to ‘The Silmarillion’, in that uncertainty about the age of the work, whether it is to be regarded as ‘early’ or ‘late’ or in what proportions, and about the degree of editorial intrusion and manipulation (or even invention), is a stumbling-block and a source of much misapprehension. Professor Randel Helms, in <I>Tolkien and the Silmarils (p</I>. 93), has stated the question thus:

Anyone interested, as I am, in the growth of <I>The Silmarillion</I> will want to study <I>Unfinished Tales</I>, not only for its intrinsic value but also because its relationship to the former provides what will become a classic example of a long-standing problem in literary criticism: what, really, is a literary work? Is it what the author intended (or may have intended) it to be, or is it what a later editor makes of it? The problem becomes especially intense for the practising critic when, as happened

