---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P156.
date: 1983-01-01 02:36
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 156
characters: 
glossaries: ['rede']
tags: ['Aulë', 'Children of the World', 'Eldar', 'Ellu Melemno', 'Fëanor', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Gnomes', 'Híri']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
his labours the glory of the Trees and the beauty of the gems and the memory of the dark ways from Palisor held back the Noldoli — and ever Nólemë spake against Melko, calming their restlessness and discontents.
</p>

At length so great became his care that he took counsel with Fëanor, and even with Inwë and Ellu Melemno (who then led the Solosimpi), and took their rede that Manwë himself be told of the dark ways of Melko.

And Melko knowing this was in great anger against the Gnomes, and going first before Manwë bowed very low, and said how the Noldoli dared murmur to his ears against Manwë's lordship, claiming that in skill and beauty they (whom Ilúvatar had destined to possess all the earth) far surpassed the Valar, for whom they must labour unrecom-pensed. Heavy was Manwë's heart at these words, for he had feared long that that great amity of the Valar and Eldar be ever perchance broken, knowing that the Elves were children of the world and must one day return to her bosom. Nay, who shall say but that all these deeds, even the seeming needless evil of Melko, were but a portion of the destiny of old? Yet cold was the Lord of the Gods to the informer, and lo! even as he questioned him further the embassy of Nólemë came thither, and being granted leave spake the truth before him. By reason of the presence of Melko perchance they spoke somewhat less skilfully in their own cause than they might, and perchance even the heart of Manwë Súlimo was tainted with the poison of Melko's words, for that venom of Melko's malice is very strong and subtle indeed.

Howbeit, both Melko and the Noldoli were chidden and dismissed. Melko indeed was bidden get him back to Mandos and there dwell awhile in penitence, nor dare to walk in Valmar for many moons, not until the great festival that now approached had come and gone; but Manwë fearing lest the pollution of their discontent spread among the other kindreds commanded Aulë to find other places and thither lead the Noldoli, and build them a new town where they might dwell.

Great was the sorrow upon the hill of Kôr when those tidings were brought thither, and though all were wroth with the treachery of Melko, yet was there now a new bitterness against the Gods, and the murmuring louder than before.

A little stream, and its name was <I>Híri</I>, ran down from the

