---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P258.
date: 1983-01-01 04:18
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 258
characters: 
glossaries: ['eld']
tags: ['Amillo', 'Daman', 'Fairies', 'Gilfanon', 'Gods']
description: 
published: true
---

(It is also said in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 39) that when the Two Trees of Valinor began to shine there began the Count of Time; this refers to the beginning of the measurement of Time from the waxing and the waning of the Trees.)

In the present tale the works of Danuin, Ranuin, and Fan-uin are said to be the cause of ‘the subjection of all things within the world to time and change’. But the very notion of a history, a consecutive story, self-evidently implies time and change; how then can Valinor be said only now to come under the necessity of change, with the ordering of the motions of the Sun and Moon, when it has undergone vast changes in the course of the story of <I>the Lost Tales?</I> Moreover the Gods now know ‘that <I>hereafter</I> even they should in counted time be subject to slow eld and their bright days to waning’. But the very statement (for instance) that Ómar-Amillo was ‘the youngest of the great Valar’ who entered the world ([p. 67]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p67)) is an assertion that the other Valar, older than he, were ‘subject to eld’. ‘Age’ has of course for mortal beings two aspects, which draw always closer: time passes, and the body decays. But of the ‘natural’ immortality of the Eldar it is said ([p. 57]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57)): ‘nor doth eld subdue their strength, unless it may be in ten thousand centuries'. Thus they ‘age’ (so Gilfanon is ‘the most aged that now dwelt in the isle’ and is ‘one of the oldest of the fairies', [p. 195]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195)), but they do not ‘age’ (do not become enfeebled). Why then do the Gods know that ‘hereafter’ they will be ‘subject to slow eld’ — which can only mean ageing in the latter sense? It may well be that there is a deeper thought here than I can fathom; but certainly I cannot explain it.

Finally, at the end of all the early writing concerning it, it may be remarked how major a place was taken in my father's original conception by the creation of the Sun and the Moon and the government of their motions: the astronomical myth is central to the whole. Afterwards it was steadily diminished, until in the end, perhaps, it would have disappeared altogether.

