---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】xvi.
date: 1983-01-01 00:00:16
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["FOREWORD"]
page_num: xvi
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Music, the divine hierarchies, the abodes of the Valar, the fates of the Children of Ilúvatar, are essential elements in the perception of the whole. Such enquiries are in no way illegitimate in principle; they arise from an acceptance of the imagined world as an object of contemplation or study valid as many other objects of contemplation or study in the all too unimaginary world. It was in this opinion and in the knowledge that others shared it that I made the collection called <I>Unfinished Tales</I>.
</p>

But the author's vision of his own vision underwent a continual slow shining, shedding and enlarging: only in <I>The Hobbit</I> and <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> did parts of it emerge to become fixed in print, in his own lifetime. The study of Middle-earth and Valinor is thus complex; for the object of the study was not stable, but exists, as it were ‘longitudinally’ in time (the author's lifetime), and not only ‘transversely’ in time, as a printed book that undergoes no essential further change. By the publication of ‘The Silmarillion’ the ‘longitudinal’ was cut ‘transversely’, and a kind of finality imposed.

This rather rambling discussion is an attempt to explain my primary motives in offering <I>The Book of Lost Tales</I> for publication. It is the first step in presenting the ‘longitudinal’ view of Middle-earth and Valinor: when the huge geographical expansion, swelling out from the centre and (as it were) thrusting Beleriand into the west, was far off in the future; when there were no ‘Elder Days' ending in the drowning of Beleriand, for there were as yet no other Ages of the World; when the Elves were still ‘fairies', and even Rúmil the learned Noldo was far removed from the magisterial ‘loremasters’ of my father's later years. In <I>The Book of Lost Tales</I> the princes of the Noldor have scarcely emerged, nor the Grey-elves of Beleriand; Beren is an Elf, not a Man, and his captor, the ultimate precursor of Sauron in that rôle, is a monstrous cat inhabited by a fiend; the Dwarves are an evil people; and the historical relations of Quenya and Sindarin were quite differently conceived. These are a few especially notable features, but such a list could be greatly prolonged. On the other hand, there was already a firm underlying structure that would endure. Moreover in the history of the history of Middle-earth

