---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P299.
date: 1983-01-01 04:59
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 299
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 299
</p>

indicated in the following entry: <I>‘manos</I> (plural <I>man-ossin):</I> a spirit that has gone to the Valar or to Erumáni (Edhofon). Cf. <I>móna,</I> Q. <I>mánë.’</I> See <I>Eruman</I> and pp. 95 ff. Other words are <I>mani</I> ‘good (of men and character only), holy’ (QL <I>manë</I> ‘good (moral)’), <I>man-dra</I> ‘noble’, and <I>Manweg</I> (Q. Manwë’).

<B>Manwë  </B>See <I>Mánir.</I> The Gnomish names are <I>Man</I> and <I>Manweg</I> (for <I>-weg</I> see <I>Bronweg).</I>

<B>Mar Vanwa Tÿaliéva </B>For <I>Mar</I> see <I>Eldamar,</I> and for <I>Vanwa</I> see <I>Qalvanda. Tyalië</I> ‘play, game’ is an isolated entry in QL under root TYALA.

<B>Meássë  </B>A late hasty entry in QL adds <I>Meássë</I> ‘sister of Makar, Amazon with bloody arms' to the root MEHE ‘ooze?’, whence <I>mear</I> ‘gore’. In GL she is <I>Mechos</I> and <I>Mechothli (mechor</I> ‘gore’), and is also called <I>Magrintha</I> ‘the red-handed’ <I>(magru=macha</I> ‘slaughter, battle’, <I>magrusaig</I> ‘bloodthirsty’). In the Valar name-list she is called <I>Rávë</I> or <I>Ravenni;</I> in QL the root RAVA has many derivatives, as <I>rauta-</I> ‘to hunt’, <I>raust</I> ‘hunting, preying’, <I>Raustar</I> a name of Oromë, <I>rau</I> (plural <I>rávi)</I> ‘lion’, <I>rav-ennë</I> ‘she-lion’, <I>Rávi</I> a name of Meássë. Very similar forms are given in GL: <I>rau</I> ‘lion’, <I>rausta</I> ‘to hunt’, <I>raust</I> ‘hunt’.

<B>Melko   </B>The name is entered in QL but without etymological affinity. In GL the corresponding name is <I>Belca,</I> changed to <I>Belcha,</I> with a note referring to Qenya <I>velka</I> ‘flame’. In the Valar name-list he is called <I>Yelur</I> (root DYELE, whence Qenya <I>yelwa</I> ‘cold’, <I>Yelin</I> ‘winter’); the Gnomish form is <I>Geluim, Gieluim,</I> ‘name of Belcha when exercising his opposite functions of extreme cold, Q. <I>Yeloimu’,</I> cf. <I>Gilim</I> ‘winter’. Melko is also called in the name-list <I>Ulban(d),</I> which is found in QL glossed ‘monster’, under the negative prefix UL-; his son Ko-somot (Gothmog) was ‘by Ulbandi’ (p. 98). Other names for him in Gnomish are <I>Uduvrin</I> (see <I>Utumna)</I> and <I>An-•• gainos</I> (see <I>Angaino).</I>

<B>Meril-i-Turinqi   </B><I>Meril</I> is not in QL, but <I>turinqi</I> ‘queen’ is given with a great many other derivatives of the root TURU ‘be strong’, including <I>Turambar (Turumarto),</I> and <I>tur</I> ‘king’. In GL are <I>tur-</I> ‘can, have power to’, <I>tûr</I> ‘king’, <I>turwin</I> ‘queen’, <I>turm</I> ‘authority, rule; strength’,

