---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P288.
date: 1983-01-01 04:48
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 288
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
288      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

also <I>eg, êg </I>‘far away, distant’. The association of <I>Eldar<BR></I>with the stars does not go back to the beginning.

<B>Erinti   </B>She appears in QL in an isolated, early entry (afterwards struck through). Nothing is ever told of Erinti in the <I>Lost Tales, </I>but in this note she is called the Vala of love, music, and beauty, also named <I>Lotessë </I>and <I>Akairis </I>(‘bride’), sister of Noldorin and Amillo. These three alone (i.e. of the Valar) have left Valinor, and dwell in Inwenórë (Tol Eressëa); she herself dwells in Alalmi-nórë in a <I>korin </I>of elms guarded by the fairies. The second half of the month of <I>avestalis </I>(January) is called <I>Erintion.</I>

There is no trace of this elsewhere; but clearly, when Erinti became the daughter of Manwë and Varda her dwelling in Alalminórë was taken over by Meril-i-Turinqi, the Lady of Tol Eressëa.

In the Valar name-list Erinti is called also <I>Kalainis; </I>this word appears in QL with the meaning ‘May’, one of many derivatives from the root KALA (see <I>Galmir).</I>

<B>Eriol   </B>In <I>The Cottage of Lost Play </I>(p. 2) <I>Eriol </I>is translated ‘One who dreams alone’. In QL the elements of this interpretation are given under the roots ERE ‘remain alone’ (see <I>Tol Eressëa) </I>and LORO ‘slumber’ (see <I>Lór-ien). </I>In GL appears the note cited on p. 14 that Gnomish <I>Angol </I>and Qenya <I>Eriollo </I>were the names of the region ‘between the seas' whence Eriol came (= Angeln in the Danish peninsula); and in an isolated note elsewhere <I>Angol </I>is derived from <I>ang </I>‘iron’ and <I>ôl </I>‘cliff’, while Eriol is said to mean the same — ‘this being the name of the fairies for the parts [sic] of his home (ironcliffs)’. Meril refers to ‘the black coasts of your home’ (p. 102). In this note the interpretation ‘One who dreams alone’ is said to be a pun on Lindo's part.

For <I>ang </I>‘iron’ see <I>Angamandi. </I>GL has <I>ol, óla </I>‘cliff, seaward precipice’, with Qenya forms <I>ollo, oldō. ere(n) </I>‘iron or steel’ is given in QL, and this element appears also in the alternative name <I>Eremandu </I>for <I>Angamandu, </I>‘Hells of Iron’.

<B>Eruman   </B>The names of this region are as difficult as the original conception of the region itself (see pp. 96 ff.) The form <I>Erumáni </I>(which occurs in the <I>Tales </I>as well

