---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P117.
date: 1983-01-01 01:57
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 117
characters: 
glossaries: ['trillaping']
tags: ['Elvenfolk', 'Over Old Hills and Far Away', 'Tinfang Warble']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>19</SUB> Out through a door that swung tall and grey,

<SUB>20</SUB> And over the lawn, and away, away!

<SUB>21</SUB> It was Tinfang Warble that was dancing there,

<SUB>22</SUB> Fluting and tossing his old white hair,

<SUB>23</SUB> Till it sparkled like frost in a winter moon;

<SUB>24</SUB> And the stars were about him, and blinked to his tune

<SUB>25</SUB> Shimmering blue like sparks in a haze,

<SUB>26</SUB> As always they shimmer and shake when he plays.

<SUB>27</SUB> My feet only made there the ghost of a sound

<SUB>28</SUB> On the shining white pebbles that ringed him round,

<SUB>29</SUB> Where his little feet flashed on a circle of sand,

<SUB>30</SUB> And the fingers were white on his flickering hand.

<SUB>31</SUB> In the wink of a star he had leapt in the air

<SUB>32</SUB> With his fluttering cap and his glistening hair;

<SUB>33</SUB> And had cast his long flute right over his back,

<SUB>34</SUB> Where it hung by a ribbon of silver and black.

<SUB>35</SUB> His slim little body went fine as a shade,

<SUB>36</SUB> And he slipped through the reeds like a mist in the glade;

<SUB>37</SUB> And he laughed like thin silver, and piped a thin note,

<SUB>38</SUB> As he flapped in the shadows his shadowy coat.

<SUB>39</SUB> O! the toes of his slippers were twisted and curled,

<SUB>40</SUB> But he danced like a wind out into the world.

<SUB>41</SUB> He is gone, and the valley is empty and bare

<SUB>42</SUB> Where lonely I stand and lonely I stare.

<SUB>43</SUB> Then suddenly out in the meadows beyond,

<SUB>44</SUB> Then back in the reeds by the shimmering pond,

<SUB>45</SUB> Then afar from a copse where the mosses are thick

<SUB>46</SUB> A few little notes came trillaping quick.

<SUB>47</SUB> I leapt o'er the stream and I sped from the glade,

<SUB>48</SUB> For Tinfang Warble it was that played;

<SUB>49</SUB> I must follow the hoot of his twilight flute

<SUB>50</SUB> Over reed, over rush, under branch, over root,

<SUB>51</SUB> And over dim fields, and through rustling grasses

<SUB>52</SUB> That murmur and nod as the old elf passes,

<SUB>53</SUB> Over old hills and far away

<SUB>54</SUB> Where the harps of the Elvenfolk softly play.

