---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P178.
date: 1983-01-01 02:58
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 178
characters: 
tags: ['Avathar', 'Daurin', 'Tórin', 'Fëanor', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Gnomes', 'Great Lands', 'Gungliont', 'Gwerlum', 'Hyarmentir, Mount', 'Melko', 'Melkor', 'Miruvor', 'Mithrim']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
versions. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 73) Melko went to Avathar because he knew of Ungoliant's dwelling there, whereas in the tale she found him wandering there seeking a way of escape. In the tale her origin is unknown, and though this element may be said to have remained in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (‘The Eldar know not whence she came’, <I>ibid.)</I>, by the device of ‘Some have said . . .’ a clear explanation is in fact given: she was a being from ‘before the world’, perverted by Melkor, who had been her lord, though she denied him. The original idea of ‘the primeval spirit Móru’ (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p167">p. 167</a>) is made explicit in an entry in the early word-list of the Gnomish language, where the name <I>Muru</I> is denned as ‘a name of the Primeval Night personified as Gwerlum or Gungliont’.*
</p>

The old story markedly lacks the quality of the description in <I>The Silmarillion</I> of the descent of Melkor and Ungoliant from Mount Hyarmentir into the plain of Valinor; and there too the great festival of the Valar and Eldar was in progress at the time: here it is long since over. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> the assault on the Trees came at the time of the mingling of the lights ([p. 75]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p75)), while here Silpion was in full bloom; and the detail of the account of the destruction of the Trees is rendered quite different through the presence of the Gnome Daurin, afterwards abandoned without trace. Thus in the old story it is not actually said that Ungoliont drank the light of Silpion, but only that the tree died from her poison on Daur-in's blade, with which Melko stabbed its trunk; and in <I>The Silmarillion</I> Ungoliant went to ‘the Wells of Varda’ and drank them dry also. It is puzzling that the Gnome was first named Fëanor, since he was slain by Melko. It would seem that my father was at least momentarily entertaining the idea that Fëanor would play no part in the story of the Noldoli in the Great Lands; but in outlines for a later tale ([pp. 270-1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p270)) he died in Mithrim. In this passage is the first appearance of <I>miruvor</I>, defined in the early Qenya word-list as ‘nectar, drink of the Valar’; with this cf. <I>The Road Goes Ever On</I>, p. 61, where my father stated that it was the name given by the Valar to the drink poured at their festivals, and compared it

<BR>
\* In the tale (see [p. 172]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p172)) the name <I>Gungliont</I> was originally written, but was emended to <I>Ungoliont</I>.

