---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P171. VI. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 02:51
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 171
characters: 
glossaries: ['an']
tags: ["Notes"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
that even as Tulkas gained to within spearcast of Melko a belt of mist took the fugitives again and the mocking laugh of Melko seems to come first from one side and then from the other, now from his elbow almost, now from far ahead, and Tulkas turns wildly about and Melko slips away.
</p>

Then Makar and Meássë rode in all haste north with their folk, arousing Mandos and ordering the guarding of the mountain paths, but either Makar was too late or Melko's cunning defeated him — and the mind of Makar was not oversubtle, for no glimpse of that Ainu did they see, though assuredly he did escape that way, and worked much evil after in the world, yet none are there whom I have heard tell ever of the manner of his perilous flight back to the ice-kingdoms of the North.’

<BR>
NOTES

[1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p155) See [pp. 125-6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p125).

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p158) <I>Lirillo</I> appears in the list of secondary names of the Valar referred to on [p. 98]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p98) as a name of Salmar-Noldorin.

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p160) ‘father of Fëanor’ is the final reading after a prolonged hesitation between ‘son of Fëanor’ and ‘brother of Fëanor’.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p160) For the story of the taking of rock and stone from Arvalin (Eruman) for the raising of the Mountains of Valinor see [p. 70]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p70).

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p161) ‘sire of Fëanor’ is an emendation from ‘son of Fëanor’; see note 3.

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p161) After the word ‘fabrics' there stood the following sentence, which was struck through: ‘which the Gods could an they listed have created in an hour’ — a sentence notable in itself and also for its excision.

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p162) The MS page beginning with the words ‘before the gates of Valmar’ and ending with ‘unabashed uttered his message, saying’ is written round the little world-map reproduced and described on [pp. 83ff]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83).

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p163) In this part of the tale the manuscript consists of detached passages, with directions from one to another; the place of this sentence is not perfectly clear, but seems most probably to belong here.

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p165) The dots are in the original.

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p167) ‘afterward’ is an emendation from ‘of old’. A question mark is written in the margin against this sentence.

