---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P218.
date: 1983-01-01 03:38
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 218
characters: 
glossaries: ['constellate', 'fain']
tags: ['Aulë', 'Eriol', 'Gilfanon', 'Ilinsor', 'llsaluntë', 'the huntsman of the firmament', 'Lindo', 'Lórien', 'Manwë', 'Moon, The', 'Rose of Silpion', 'Sári']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and full of many marvellous deeds that Gilfanon may tell; but now the Gods beheld the evening deepen over the world as the Sunship was drawn down and the glow upon the mountains faded, and the sparkle of the seas went out. Then the primeval darkness crept out again once more from many stealthy lairs, but Varda was glad to see the steady shining of the stars. Far upon the plain was Sári drawn, and when she was gone Ilsaluntë was haled upon the topmost peak so that his white lucency fell out thence over the wide world and the first night was come. Indeed in these days darkness is no more within the borders of the world, but only night, and night is another and a different thing, by reason of the Rose of Silpion.
</p>

Now however does Aulë fill the brimming vessel of that flower with white radiance, and many of the Súruli white-winged glide beneath and bear it slowly up and set it among the company of the stars. There does it swim slowly, a pale and glorious thing, and Ilinsor and his comrades sit them upon its rim and with shimmering oars urge it bravely through the sky; and Manwë breathed upon its bellying sails till it was wafted far away, and the beat of the unseen oars against the winds of night faded and grew faint.

Of this manner was the first rising of the Moon above Taniquetil, and Lórien rejoiced, but Ilinsor was jealous of the supremacy of the Sun, and he bade the starry mariners flee before him and the constellate lamps go out, but many would not, and often he set sail in chase of them, and the little ships of Varda fled before the huntsman of the firmament, and were not caught: — and that, said Lindo, ‘is all, methinks, I know to tell of the building of those marvellous ships and their launching on the air. '<SUP>[20]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p221)</SUP>

‘But,’ said Eriol, ‘nay, surely that is not so, for at the tale's beginning methought you promised us words concerning the present courses of the Sun and Moon and their rising in the East, and I for one, by the leave of the others here present am not minded to release you of your word.’

Then quoth Lindo laughing, ‘Nay, I remember not the promise, and did I make it then it was rash indeed, for the things you ask are nowise easy to relate, and many matters concerning the deeds in those days in Valinor are hidden from all save only the Valar. Now however am I fain rather

