---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P81. III. Commentary
date: 1983-01-01 01:21
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 81
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary", 'Aldaron', 'Amillo', 'Astaldo', 'Aulë', 'Earth-lady', 'Fantur', 'Fëanturi', 'Fui', 'Kementári', 'Kémi', 'Lórien', 'Makar', 'Mandos', 'Manwë', 'Meássë', 'Melko', 'Melkor', 'Nessa', 'Ómar', 'Oromë', 'Ossë', 'Palúrien', 'Poldórëa', 'Salmar', 'Rúmil', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Súlimo', 'Tulkas', 'Uinen', 'Ulmo']
description: 
published: true
---

<BR>
Commentary on <I>The Coming of the Valar and the Building of Valinor</I>

The abundant instruction provided by Rúmil on this occasion is best discussed in sections, and I begin with:

(i) The Coming of the Valar and their encounter with Melko ([pp. 63-7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p63))

The description of the entry of the Valar into the world was not retained, though the account of them in this passage is the ultimate origin of that in the <I>Valaquenta (The Silmarillion</I> pp. 25-9): not, however, by continuous manuscript progression. The passage is of much interest, for here appear all at once many figures of the mythology who were to endure, beside others who were not. It is remarkable how many of the names of the Valar in the earliest writings were never afterwards displaced or reshaped: <I>Yavanna, Tulkas, Lórien, Nienna, Oromë, Aldaron, Vána, Nessa</I>, first appearing in this tale, and <I>Manwë, Súlimo, Varda, Ulmo, Aulë, Mandos, Ossë, Salmar</I>, who have appeared previously. Some were retained in a modified form: <I>Melkor</I> for <I>Melko, Uinen</I> (which appears already later in the <I>Lost Tales</I>) for <I>Ónen, Fëanturi</I> for <I>Fánturi;</I> while yet others, as Yavanna <I>Palúrien</I> and Tulkas <I>Poldórëa</I>, survived long in the ‘Silmarillion’ tradition before being displaced by <I>Kementári</I> (but cf. <I>Kémi</I> ‘Earth-lady’ in this tale) and <I>Astaldo</I>. But some of these early Valar had disappeared by the next stage or phase after the <I>Lost Tales:</I> Ómar-Amillo, and the barbaric war-gods Makar and Meássë. Here appear also certain relations that survived to the latest form. Thus Lórien and Mandos were from the beginning ‘brethren’, each with his special association, of ‘dreams' and ‘death’; and Nienna stood from the beginning in a close relationship with them, here as ‘the spouse of Mandos’, though afterwards as the sister of the Fëanturi. The original conception of Nienna was indeed darker and more fearful, a death-goddess in close association with Mandos, than it afterwards became. Ossë's uncertain relations with Ulmo are seen to go back to the beginnings; but Ulmo's haughtiness and aloofness subsequently disappeared, at least as a feature of his divine ‘character’ explicitly described. Vána was already

