---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P37.
date: 1983-01-01 00:37
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 37
characters: 
glossaries: ['clamant', 'fane']
tags: ['Alalminórë', 'Silver Wain', 'Hrívion', 'Kortirion', 'Kortirion among the Trees', 'The Trees of Kortirion', 'Lord of the Rings, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>106</SUB> You crossed wide seas unto this mortal shore.

<SUB>107</SUB> Now are your trees, old grey Kortirion,

<SUB>108</SUB> Through pallid mists seen rising tall and wan,

<SUB>109</SUB> Like vessels vague that slowly drift afar

<SUB>110</SUB> Out, out to empty seas beyond the bar

<SUB>111</SUB> Of cloudy ports forlorn;

<SUB>112</SUB> Leaving behind for ever havens loud,

<SUB>113</SUB> Wherein their crews a while held feasting proud

<SUB>114</SUB> In lordly ease, they now like windy ghosts

<SUB>115</SUB> Are wafted by cold airs to friendless coasts,

<SUB>116</SUB> And silent down the tide are borne.

<SUB>117</SUB> Bare has your realm become, Kortirion,

<SUB>118</SUB> Stripped of its raiment, and its splendour gone.

<SUB>119</SUB> Like lighted tapers in a darkened fane

<SUB>120</SUB> The funeral candles of the Silver Wain

<SUB>121</SUB> Now flare above the fallen year.

<SUB>122</SUB> Winter is come. Beneath the barren sky

<SUB>123</SUB> The Elves are silent. But they do not die!

<SUB>124</SUB> Here waiting they endure the winter fell

<SUB>125</SUB> And silence. Here I too will dwell;

<SUB>126</SUB> Kortirion, I will meet the winter here.

<BR>

<I><B>IV</B>. Mettanyë\*</I>

<SUB>127</SUB> I would not find the burning domes and sands

<SUB>128</SUB> Where reigns the sun, nor dare the deadly snows,

<SUB>129</SUB> Nor seek in mountains dark the hidden lands

<SUB>130</SUB> Of men long lost to whom no pathway goes;

<SUB>131</SUB> I heed no call of clamant bell that rings

<SUB>132</SUB> Iron-tongued in the towers of earthly kings.

<SUB>133</SUB> Here on the stones and trees there lies a spell

<SUB>134</SUB> Of unforgotten loss, of memory more blest

<SUB>135</SUB> Than mortal wealth. Here undefeated dwell

<SUB>136</SUB> The Folk Immortal under withered elms,

<SUB>137</SUB> Alalminórë once in ancient realms.

<BR>
\* <I>Mettanyë</I> contains <I>metta</I> ‘ending’, as in <I>Ambar-metta</I>, the ending of the world <I>(The Return of the King</I>, VI.5).

