---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P114.
date: 1983-01-01 01:54
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 114
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
114     THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I<BR>NOTES
</p>

1  The following passage was added here, apparently very soon after the writing of the text, but was later firmly struck through:

The truth is that he is a son of Linwë Tinto King of the Pipers who was lost of old upon the great march from Palisor, and wandering in Hisilómë found the lonely twilight spirit (Tindriel) Wendelin dancing in a glade of beeches. Loving her he was content to leave his folk and dance for ever in the shadows, but his children Timpinen and Tinúviel long after joined the Eldar again, and tales there are concerning them both, though they are seldom told.

The name <I>Tindriel </I>stood alone in the manuscript as written, but it was then bracketed and <I>Wendelin </I>added in the margin. These are the first references in the consecutive narrative to Thingol (Linwë Tinto), Hithlum (Hisilómë), Melian (Tindriel, Wendelin), and Lúthien Tinúviel; but I postpone discussion of these allusions.

2  Cf. the explanation of the names <I>Eriol </I>and <I>Angol </I>as ‘iron-cliffs' referred to in the Appendix on Names (entry <I>Eriol).</I>

3  Associated with the story of the sojourn of Eriol (Ǽlfwine) in Tol Eressëa, and the ‘Lost Tales' that he heard there, are two ‘schemes' or synopses setting out the plan of the work. One of these is, for much of its length, a resume of the <I>Tales </I>as they are extant; the other, certainly the later, is divergent. In this second scheme, in which the voyager is called Ǽlfwine, the tale on the second night by the Tale-fire is given to ‘Evromord the Door-ward’, though the narrative-content was to be the same (The Coming of the Gods; the World-fashioning and the Building of Valinor; the Planting of the Two Trees). After this is written (a later addition): ‘Ǽlfwine goes to beg <I>limpë </I>of Meril; she sends him back.’ The third night by the Tale-fire is thus described:

The Door-ward continues of the Primeval Twilight. The Furies of Melko. Melko's Chains and the awakening of the Elves. (How Fankil and many dark shapes escape into the world.) [Given to Meril but to be placed as here and much abridged.]

