---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P305.
date: 1983-01-01 05:05
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 305
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Appendix</I> 305
</p>

<I>Orossi</I> are ‘fays of the mountains', and this name is thus<BR>a derivative from the root ORO seen in <I>Kalormë.<BR></I><B>Ossë  </B>See <I>Ónen.</I> His Gnomish name is <I>Otha</I> or <I>Oth.</I>

<B>Palisor   </B>See <I>Palúrien.</I>

<B>Palúrien  </B>An early entry in QL gives <I>Palurin</I> ‘the wide world’ under a root PALA, whose derivatives have a common general sense of ‘flatness’, among them <I>palis</I> ‘sward, lawn’, whence no doubt <I>Palisor.</I> In GL the corresponding name is <I>Belaurin, B(a)laurin;</I> but she is also called <I>Bladorwen</I> ‘the wide earth, the world and its plants and fruits, Mother Earth’ (related words are <I>blant</I> ‘flat, open, expansive, candid’, <I>blath</I> ‘floor’, <I>bladwen</I> ‘a plain’). See <I>Yavanna.</I>

<B>Poldórëa </B>Not in QL, but GL gives several corresponding forms: <I>Polodweg=Tulcus (polod</I> ‘power, might, authority’); <I>polodrin</I> ‘mighty, also in poetic form <I>Poldurin or Poldorin</I> which is especially used as epithet of Tulcus; Q. <I>Poldórëa’.</I>

<B>Qalmë-Tári </B>The root is QALA ‘die’, whence <I>qalmë</I> ‘death’, <I>qalin</I> ‘dead’, and other words of the same meaning. <I>Tári</I> is from TAHA: <I>tâ</I> ‘high’, <I>tára</I> ‘lofty’, <I>tári</I> ‘queen’, etc.; Gnomish <I>dâ</I> ‘high’, <I>dara</I> ‘lofty’, <I>daroth</I> ‘summit, peak’. Cf. <I>Taniquetil.</I>

<B>Qalvanda    </B>‘The Road of Death’ (p. 240). See <I>Qalmë-Tári.</I> The second element is from root VAHA: whence <I>vâ</I> past tense ‘went’, <I>vand-</I> ‘way, path’, <I>vandl</I> ‘staff’, <I>vanwa</I> ‘gone on the road, past, over, lost’ (as in <I>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva).</I> Cf. <I>Vansamrin.</I>

<B>Qerkaringa   </B>The first element is obscure; for <I>-ringa</I> see <I>Ringil.</I>

<B>Qorinómi  </B>See p. 257. The root is QORO/QOSO, whence <I>qoro-</I> ‘choke, suffocate’, <I>qorin</I> ‘drowned, choked’, etc.

<B>Rána </B>Not in QL, but GL has <I>Rân</I> ‘the Moon (Q. <I>Rána)’</I> and <I>ranoth</I> ‘month’ <I>(Ranoth</I> was a rejected name preceding <I>Ranuin,</I> p. 251). In the text (p. 215) it is said that the Gods named the Moon <I>Rána.</I>

<B>Ranuin   </B>See <I>Rána.</I>

<B>Ringil   </B>QL gives <I>ringa</I> ‘damp, cold, chilly’, <I>ringwë</I> ‘rime,

