---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P192.
date: 1983-01-01 03:12
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VII. THE FLIGHT OF THE NOLDOLI"]
page_num: 192
characters: 
tags: ['Amnon', 'Amnos', 'Emnon', 'Gondolin', 'The Fall of Gondolin', 'Helkaraksë', 'Icefang', 'Losengriol', 'Lothengriol', 'Mandos']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
black ship Mornië (pp. <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p78">78</a>, <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186">186</a>). The name <I>Helkaraksë</I>, ‘Ice-fang’, first appearing in emendations to the text and given to the neck or promontory running out from the western land, was afterwards re-applied to what is here called <I>Qerkaringa</I>, the strait filled with ice-floes that ‘grind and crash together’; but this was when the <I>Helcaraxë</I>, ‘the Grinding Ice’, had come to have a quite different geographical significance in the much more sophisticated world-picture that my father evolved during the next ‘phase’ of the mythology.
</p>

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 87) there is a suggestion that the speaker of the Prophecy of the North was Mandos himself ‘and no lesser herald of Manwë’, and its gravity, indeed its centraliry in the mythology, is far greater; here there is no suggestion of a ‘doom’ or ‘curse’, but only a foretelling. This foretelling included the dark words ‘Great is the fall of Gondolin’. In the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> (but in an interpolated sentence very possibly later than the present tale) Turgon, standing upon the stairs of his palace amid the destruction of the city, uttered these same words, ‘and men shuddered, for such were the words of Amnon the prophet of old’. Here <I>Amnon</I> (rather than <I>Amnos</I> as in the present text, itself an emendation from <I>Emnon</I>) is not a place but a person (the servant of Vefántur who uttered the prophecy?). In the little notebook referred to above occurs the following jotting:

Prophecy of Amnon. Great is the fall of Gondolin. Lo Turgon<BR>shall not fade till the lily of the valley fadeth.

In some other notes for the <I>Lost Tales</I> this takes the form:

Prophecy of Amnon. ‘Great is the fall of Gondolin’ and ‘When<BR>the lily of the valley withers than shall Turgon fade’.

In these notes <I>Amnon</I> might be either place or person. The ‘lily of the valley’ is Gondolin itself, one of whose Seven Names was <I>Losengriol</I>, later <I>Lothengriol</I>, which is translated ‘flower of the vale or lily of the valley’.

There is an interesting statement in the old story ([p. 185]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p185)) that the Noldoli would never have passed the ice if they had yet been subject to the ‘weariness, sickness, and the many

