---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】xi.
date: 1983-01-01 00:00:11
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["FOREWORD"]
page_num: xi
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
emphatically not — referring to the work itself, which was in any case already written, and much of it many times over (the allusions in <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> are not illusory): what was in question for him, as he said earlier in this same letter, was its <I>presentation</I>, in a publication, <I>after</I> the appearance of <I>The Lord of the Rings</I>, when, as he thought, the right time to make it known was already gone.
</p>

I am afraid all the same that the presentation will need a lot of work, and I work so slowly. The legends have to be worked over (they were written at different times, some many years ago) and made consistent; and they have to be integrated with The L.R.; and they have to be given some progressive shape. No simple device, like a journey and a quest, is available. I am doubtful myself about the undertaking . . .

When after his death the question arose of publishing “The Silmarillion” in some form, I attached no importance to this doubt. The effect that ‘the glimpses of a large history in the background’ have in <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> is incontestable and of the utmost importance, but I did not think that the ‘glimpses' used there with such art should preclude all further knowledge of the ‘large history’.

The literary ‘impression of depth . . . created by songs and digressions' cannot be made a criterion by which a work in a wholly different mode is measured: this would be to treat the history of the Elder Days as of value primarily or even solely in the artistic use made of it in <I>The Lord of the Rings</I>. Nor should the device of a backward movement in imagined time to dimly apprehended events, whose attraction lies in their very dimness, be understood mechanically, as if a fuller account of the mighty kings of Nargothrond and Gondolin would imply a dangerously near approach to the bottom of the well, while an account of the Creation would signify the striking of the bottom and a definitive running-out of ‘depth’ — ‘nothing to reach further back to’.

This, surely, is not how things work, or at least not how they need work. ‘Depth’ in this sense implies a relation between different temporal layers or levels within the same world. Provided that the reader has a place, a point of vantage, <I>in the imagined time</I> from which to look back, the extreme

