---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P118.
date: 1983-01-01 01:58
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 118
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<I>Earlier readings:</I>

1-2  It was a very quiet evening once in June —

And I thought that stars had grown bright too soon —

Cf. the prose text, [p. 99]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p99): ‘The Noldoli say that [the stars] come out too soon if Tinfang Warble plays'.

8 from the shores of the mere: by the fairies' mere

9 Elvenhome: emendation made on the text of the final version, replacing ‘Fairyland’.

24 Till the stars came out, as it seemed, too soon.

Cf. the note to line 2.

25-6 They always come out when he warbles and plays,

And they shine bright blue as long as he stays.

Cf. the prose text, [p. 100]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p100): ‘or will he play beneath<BR>a goodly moon and the stars go bright and blue.’

54 Elvenfolk: emendation made on the text of the final ver- <BR>sion, replacing ‘fairies'.

The first part of this story of <I>The Chaining of Melko </I>came to have a very different form in later versions, where <I>(The Silmarillion </I>p. 35) it was during the sojourn of the Valar on the Isle of Almaren, under the light of the Two Lamps, that ‘the seeds that Yavanna had sown began swiftly to sprout and to burgeon, and there arose a multitude of growing things great and small, mosses and grasses and great ferns, and trees whose tops were crowned with cloud’; and that ‘beasts came forth and dwelt in the grassy plains, or in the rivers and the lakes, or walked in the shadows of the woods'. This was the Spring of Arda; but after the coming of Melkor and the delving of Utumno ‘green things fell sick and rotted, and rivers were choked with weeds and slime, and fens were made, rank and poisonous, the breeding place of flies; and forests grew dark and perilous, the haunts of fear; and beasts became monsters of horn and ivory and dyed the earth with blood’. Then came the fall of the Lamps, and ‘thus ended the Spring of Arda’ ([p. 37]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p37)). After the building of Valinor and the arising of the Two Trees ‘Middle-earth lay in a twilight beneath the stars' ([p. 39]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p39)), and Yavanna and Oromë alone of the Valar returned there at times: ‘Yavanna would walk there in the shadows, grieving because the growth and promise of the Spring of Arda was stayed. And she set a sleep upon

