---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P265.
date: 1983-01-01 04:25
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 265
characters: 
tags: ['Ǽlfwine', 'Dark Elves', 'the Tale of Earendel', 'Eriol', 'Gnomes', 'The Fall of Gondolin', 'Great Lands', 'Men', 'Necklace of the Dwarves, Tale of the', 'Tû', 'the Tale of Tinúviel']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
once very much fuller, but then contracts again to cursory references for the tales of Tinúvíel, Turin, Tuor, and the Necklace of the Dwarves, and once more becomes fuller for the tale of Earendel. It is clear, therefore, that B is the preliminary form, according to the method that my father regularly used in those days, of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I>, and indeed the part of the tale that was written as a proper narrative is obviously following the outline quite closely, while substantially expanding it.
</p>

There is also an extremely rough, though full, outline of the matter of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> which though close to B has things that B does not, and vice versa; this is virtually certainly the predecessor of B, and in this chapter will be called 'A'.

The second outline referred to above, an unrealized project for the revision of the whole work, introduces features that need not be discussed here; it is sufficient to say that the mariner was now Ǽlfwine, not Eriol, and that his previous history was changed, but that the general plan of the <I>Tales</I> themselves was largely intact (with several notes to the effect that they needed abridging or recasting). This outline I shall call 'D'. How much time elapsed between B and D cannot be said, but I think probably not much. It seems possible that this new scheme was associated with the sudden breaking-off of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I>. As with B, D suddenly expands to a much fuller account when this point is reached.

Lastly, a much briefer and more cursory outline, which however adds one or two interesting points, also has Ǽlfwine instead of Eriol; this followed B and preceded D, and is here called 'C'.

I shall not give all these outlines <I>in extenso</I>, which is unnecessary in view of the amount of overlap between them; on the other hand to combine them all into one would be both inaccurate and confusing. But since A and B are very close they can be readily combined into one; and I follow this account by that of D, with C in so far as it adds anything of note. And since in the matter of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> the outlines are clearly divided into two parts, the Awakening of Men and the history of the Gnomes in the Great Lands, I treat the narrative in each case in these two parts, separately.

There is no need to give the material of the outlines in the opening passage of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> that was actually written,

