---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P97.
date: 1983-01-01 01:37
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 97
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>20</SUB> There on a sudden did my heart perceive

<SUB>21</SUB> That they who sang about the Eve,

<SUB>22</SUB> Who answered the bright-shining stars

<SUB>23</SUB> With gleaming music of their strange guitars,

<SUB>24</SUB> These were His wandering happy sons

<SUB>25</SUB> Encamped upon those aëry leas

<SUB>26</SUB> Where God's unsullied garment runs

<SUB>27</SUB> In glory down His mighty knees.

<BR>

A final evidence comes from the early Qenya word-list. The original layer of entries in this list dates (as I believe, see the Appendix on Names) from 1915, and among these original entries, under a root <I>mana</I> (from which <I>Manwë</I> is derived), is given a word <I>manimo</I> which means a soul who is in <I>man-imuine</I> ‘Purgatory’.

This poem, and this entry in the word-list, offer a rare and very suggestive glimpse of the mythic conception in its earliest phase; for here ideas that are drawn from Christian theology are explicitly present. It is disconcerting to perceive that they are still present in this tale. For in the tale there is an account of the fates of dead Men after judgement in the black hall of Fui Nienna. Some (‘and these are the many’) are ferried by the death-ship to (Habbanan) Eruman, where they wander in the dusk and wait in patience till the Great End; some are seized by Melko and tormented in Angamandi ‘the Hells of Iron’; and some few go to dwell with the Gods in Valinor. Taken with the poem and the evidence of the early ‘dictionaries', can this be other than a reflection of Purgatory, Hell, and Heaven?

This becomes all the more extraordinary if we refer to the concluding passage of the tale of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> ([p. 57]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57)), where Ilúvatar said: ‘To Men I will give a new gift and a greater’, the gift that they might ‘fashion and design their life beyond even the original Music of the Ainur that is as fate to all things else’, and where it is said that, ‘it is one with this gift of power that the Children of Men dwell only for a short time in the world alive, yet do not perish utterly for ever . . . ’ In the final form given in <I>The Silmarillion</I> pp. 41-2 this passage was not very greatly changed. The early version does not, it is true, have the sentences:

