---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P304. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:04
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 304
characters: ['Ô', 'Oarni', 'Olofantur', 'Olórë Mallë', 'Ónen', 'Orc', 'Oromë', 'Oronto', 'Orossi']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<B>Ô</B>  (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing: ‘the Sea’, pp. 87-8.) See <I>[Ónen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ónen)</I>.

<B>Oarni</B>   See <I>[Ónen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ónen)</I>.

<B>Olofantur</B>   See <I>[Lórien]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Lórien), [Fanturi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Fanturi)</I>.

<B>Olórë Mallë</B> For <I>Olórë</I> see <I>[Lórien]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Lórien). mallë</I> ‘street’ appears in QL under root MALA ‘crush’ (see <I>[Balrog]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Balrog))</I>; the Gnomish form is <I>mal</I> ‘paved way, road’, and the equivalent of <I>Olórë</I> is <I>Malmaurien</I> (see <I>[Murmuran]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Murmuran))</I>.

<B>Ónen</B> The root ‘o'o in QL has derivatives <I>Ô</I>, a poetic word, ‘the sea’, <I>oar</I> ‘child of the sea, merchild’, <I>oaris (-ts), oarwen</I> ‘mermaid’, and <I>Ossë;</I> the name <I>Ôwen</I> (antecedent of <I>Ónen</I> in the text, pp. [59]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p59), [80]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p80)) also appears, and evidently means the same as <I>oarwen</I> (for <I>-wen</I> see <I>Ur-wen)</I>. The later form <I>Uinen</I> in the Tales is apparently Gnomish; GL <I>Únen</I> ‘Lady of the Sea’, changed later to <I>Uinen. A</I> form <I>Oinen</I> also occurs ([p. 238]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p238)).

In the Valar name-list Ónen is called also <I>Solórë</I> (see <I>[Solosimpi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Solosimpi))</I> and <I>Ui Oarista</I>. This latter appears in QL, with the definition ‘Queen of the Mermaids', together with <I>Uin</I> ‘the primeval whale’; but how these relate to the other names is obscure.

<B>Orc</B>   QL <I>ork (orq-) ‘monster, demon ’. GL orc</I> ‘goblin’, plural <I>orcin, orchoth (hoth</I> ‘folk, people’, <I>hothri</I> ‘army’, <I>hothron</I> ‘captain’).

<B>Oromë</B>   In QL <I>Oromë</I> ‘son of Aulë’ is placed under a root ORO that is distinct (apparently because of the nature of the consonant) from ORO (with meaning of ‘steepness, rising’) given under <I>Kalormë;</I> but these roots are said to be ‘much confused’. This second root yields <I>órë</I> ‘the dawn, Sunrise, East’, <I>órëa</I> ‘of the dawn, Eastern’, <I>orontë, oronto</I> ‘Sunrise’, <I>osto</I> ‘the gates of the Sun’, and <I>Ostor</I> ‘the East, the Sun when she issues from her white gates'. It is noted that <I>Oromë</I> should perhaps be placed under the other root, but there is no indication of the connections of the name. In <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> ([p. 241]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p241)) Oromë has a particular knowledge of the East of the world. His name in Gnomish is <I>Orma;</I> and in the Valar name-list he is also called <I>Raustar</I>, for which see <I>Meássë</I>.

<B>Oronto</B>   (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, ‘East’.) See <I>[Oromë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Oromë)</I>.

<B>Orossi</B>   In the list of fays referred to under <I>Nandini</I> the

