---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P189.
date: 1983-01-01 03:09
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VII. THE FLIGHT OF THE NOLDOLI"]
page_num: 189
characters: 
tags: ['Finwë Nólemë', 'Hanstovánen', 'Great Lands', 'Helkaraksë', 'Icefang', 'Kinslaughter', 'Kinslaying', 'Lindo', 'Cópas', 'Cópas Alqaluntë', 'Mandos']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
important battle of Cópas Alqaluntë where the Gnomes slew the Solosimpi must be inserted.’ This note was then struck through and marked ‘done’, but only the latter direction was in fact followed: this is the rider on the Kinslaughter given on <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p182">pp. 182-5</a>.
</p>

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p185) Against this my father wrote in the margin: <I>‘Helkaraksë</I> Icefang <I>Qerkaringa</I> the water’; see note 5.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p185) <I>Helkaraksë or Icefang:</I> earlier reading <I>Qerkaringa;</I> see note 5.

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186) This passage, from ’ “Know then,” said Lindo . . .‘.replaces an earlier version which I do not give, for it contains almost nothing that is not in the replacement; and the last sentence of the replacement is a later addition still. It is to be noted however that in the first version the neck of land is called <I>Qerkaringa</I> (as also in the replacement passage at first, see note 4), with the remark that ‘the name has also been given to the sound beyond’. This then was the earlier idea: <I>Qerkaringa</I> the name primarily of the neck of land, but extended also to the sound (presumably at that stage <I>querka</I> did not mean ‘gulf). My father than decided that <I>Qerkaringa</I> was the name of the sound and introduced the name <I>Helkaraksë</I> for the neck of land; hence the marginal annotation give in note 3 above. At this point he added the last sentence of the replacement passage, ‘Now that strip of water that flowed still between Icefang's tip and the Great Lands was called Qerkaringa or Chill Gulf, and emended <I>Qerkaringa</I> in the body of the passage (note 4) to <I>Helkaraksë or Icefang</I>, carrying this change through the rest of the tale (on [p. 188]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p188) <I>of Qerkaringa > of Helkaraksë and of Qerkaringa</I>).

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186) For the path down from Mandos, the black ship Mornië, and its journey down the coast to Arvalin, see pp. [78]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p78), [95]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p95) ff.

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186) Turondo or Turgon, son of Nólemë, has been named previously, [p. 124]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p124).

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p186) The reading <I>Hanstovánen</I> is slightly uncertain, and another<BR>name ‘or...... <I>Mornien’</I> follows it. See under ‘Changes made to names' below.

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p187) After the word ‘dwelling’ there is a space left for the insertion of an Elvish name.

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p187) MS <I>Qerkaringa</I> unemended, but clearly the western promontory (the Icefang) is referred to, and I therefore read <I>Helkaraksë</I> in the text (see note 5).

