---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P107.
date: 1983-01-01 01:47
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 107
characters: 
tags: ['Angaino', 'Aulë', 'Fantur', 'Fionwë', 'Fionwë-Úrion', 'llterendi', 'Lórien', 'Makar', 'Mandos', 'Manwë', 'Melko', 'Nornorë', 'Ómar', 'Oromë', 'Salmar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
this had all the properties of the six and many of its own. Its colour was bright green or red in varying lights and it could not be broken, and Aulë alone could forge it. Thereafter he forged a mighty chain, making it of all seven metals welded with spells to a substance of uttermost hardness and brightness and smoothness, but of <I>tilkal</I> he had not sufficient to add more than a little to each link. Nonetheless he made two manacles of <I>tilkal</I> only and four fetters likewise. Now the chain was named <I>Angaino</I>, the oppressor, and the manacles <I>Vorotemnar</I> that bind for ever, but the fetters <I>Ilterendi</I> for they might not be filed or cleft.
</p>

But the desire of the Gods was to seek out Melko with great power — and to entreat him, if it might be, to better deeds; yet did they purpose, if naught else availed, to overcome him by force or guile, and set him in a bondage from which there should be no escape.

Now as Aulë smithied the Gods arrayed themselves in armour, which they had of Makar, and he was fain to see them putting on weapons and going as to war, howso their wrath be directed against Melko. But when the great Gods and all their folk were armed, then Manwë climbed into his blue chariot whose three horses were the whitest that roamed in Oromë's domain, and his hand bore a great white bow that would shoot an arrow like a gust of wind across the widest seas. Fionwë his son stood behind him and Nomorë who was his herald ran before; but Oromë rode alone upon a chestnut horse and had a spear, and Tulkas strode mightily beside his stirrup, having a tunic of hide and a brazen belt and no weapon save a gauntlet upon his right hand, iron-bound. Telimektar his son but just war-high was by his shoulder with a long sword girt about his waist by a silver girdle. There rode the Fánturi upon a car of black, and there was a black horse upon the side of Mandos and a dappled grey upon the side of Lórien, and Salmar and Ómar came behind running speedily, but Aulë who was late tarrying overlong at his smithy came last, and he was not armed, but caught up his long-handled hammer as he left his forge and fared hastily

<BR>
\* <I>L(aurë). ilsa</I> and <I>laurë</I> are the ‘magic’ names of ordinary <I>telpë</I> and <I>kulu.’</I>

