---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P244.
date: 1983-01-01 04:04
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 244
characters: 
tags: ['Door of Night']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
limitless dark, and coming behind the world finds the East again. There doth Sári filled with the lightness of the morning ride through the gates and Urwendi and her maidens make a sound of golden horns, and dawn is split upon the eyes of Men.<SUP><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p249">16</a></SUP>
</p>

Yet many a time and oft a tiny star-ship of Varda that has dipped into the Outer Seas, as often they will, is sucked through that Door of Night behind the Sun; and some track her galleon through the starless vast back unto the Eastern Wall, and some are lost for ever, and some glimmer beyond the Door until the Sunship issues forth again.<SUP>[17]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p250)</SUP> Then do these leap back and rush up into the sky again, or flee across its spaces; and this is a very beautiful thing to see — the Fountains of the Stars.

Behold, the Moon dares not the utter loneliness of the outer dark by reason of his lesser light and majesty, and he journeys still beneath the world and many are the chances of that way; wherefore is it that he is often less timely than the Sun and is more fickle. Sometimes he comes not after Sári at all, and other times is late and maketh but a little voyage or even dares the heavens while Urwendi still is there. Then smile the Gods wistfully and say: “It is the mingling of the lights once more.”<SUP>[18]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p250)</SUP>

Long was this indeed the manner of the ships' guidance, and long was it after those days that the Gods grew afraid once more for the Sun and Moon because of certain tidings of those days, which perchance may after be told; and because of their fear a new and strange thing befell. Now the manner of this mayhap I may tell before I make an end; and it is called <I>The Weaving of the Days and Months and of the Years</I>.

For know that even as the great Gods sat in conclave pondering how they might fetter the lamps of heaven ever to their hand and guide their goings even as a charioteer doth guide his galloping horses, behold three aged men stood before them and saluted Manwë.

But Manwë asked them who they were, “for well I know,” quoth he, “that ye are not of the glad folk that dwell in Valmar or the gardens of the Gods,” and the Valar marvelled how they came unaided to their land. Now those men were of strange aspect, seeming aged beyond count albeit of

