---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P43.
date: 1983-01-01 00:43
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 43
characters: 
glossaries: ['ousel']
tags: ['Eldar', 'Eriol', 'Goblins', 'Gondolin', 'language of the Gods', 'Great Lands', 'Inwir', 'Island Elves', 'Kôr', 'lost bands', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Noldoli', 'Ómar', 'Rúmil', 'Solosimpi']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Noldoli grow old astounding slow, and yet have I grey hairs in the study of all the tongues of the Valar and of Eldar. Long ere the fall of Gondolin, good sir, I lightened my thraldom under Melko in learning the speech of all monsters and goblins — have I not conned even the speeches of beasts, disdaining not the thin voices of the voles and mice? — have I not cadged a stupid tune or two to hum of the speechless beetles? Nay, I have worried at whiles even over the tongues of Men, but Melko take them! they shift and change, change and shift, and when you have them are but a hard stuff whereof to labour songs or tales. Wherefore is it that this morn I felt as Ómar the Vala who knows all tongues, as I hearkened to the blending of the voices of the birds comprehending each, recognising each well-loved tune, when <I>tirípti lirilla</I> here comes a bird, an imp of Melko — but I weary you sir, with babbling of songs and words.’
</p>

‘Nay, not so,’ quoth Eriol, ‘but I beg of you be not disheartened by one fat imp of an ousel. If my eyes deceive not, for a good age of years you have cared for this garden. Then must you know store of songs and tongues sufficient to comfort the heart of the greatest of all sages, if indeed this be the first voice that you have heard therein, and lacked its interpretation. Is it not said that the birds of every district, nay almost of every nest, speak unalike? ’

”Tis said so, and said truly,’ quoth Rúmil, ‘and all the songs of Tol Eressëa are to be heard at times within this garden. ’

‘More than heart-content am I, ’ said Eriol, ‘to have learned that one fair tongue which the Eldar speak about this isle of Tol Eressëa — but I marvelled to hear you speak as if there were many speeches of the Eldar: are there so? ’

‘Aye,’ said Rúmil, ‘for there is that tongue to which the Noldoli cling yet — and aforetime the Teleri, the Solosimpi, and the Inwir had all their differences. Yet these were slighter and are now merged in that tongue of the island Elves which you have learnt. Still are there the lost bands too that dwell wandering sadly in the Great Lands, and maybe they speak very strangely now, for it was ages gone that that march was made from Kôr, and as I hold 'twas but the long wandering of the Noldoli about the Earth and the black ages of their thraldom while their kin dwelt yet in Valinor that caused the

