---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P25. Kortirion among the Trees (pre-1937)
date: 1983-01-01 00:25
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 25
characters: 
tags: ["poem", 'Adventures of Tom Bombadil, The', 'Eriol', 'Kortirion', 'Kortirion among the Trees', 'The Trees of Kortirion', 'Narquelion', 'Old English', 'Tol Eressëa']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
matter I shall return later. In this connection, the diminutiveness of the Cottage is very strange since it seems to be a diminutiveness peculiar to itself: Eriol, who has travelled for many days through Tol Eressëa, is astonished that the dwelling can hold so many, and he is told that all who enter it must be, or must become, very small. But Tol Eressëa is an island inhabited by Elves.
</p>

I give now three texts of the poem <I>Kortirion among the Trees</I> (later <I>The Trees of Kortirion</I>). The very earliest workings (November 1915) of this poem are extant,\* and there are many subsequent texts. The prose introduction to the early form has been cited on [pp. 16-7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p16). A major revision was made in 1937, and another much later; by this time it was almost a different poem. Since my father sent it to Rayner Unwin in February 1962 as a possible candidate for inclusion in <I>The Adventures of Tom Bom-badil</I>, it seems virtually certain that the final version dates from that time.†

I give the poem first in its pre-1937 form, when only slight changes had yet been made. In one of the earliest copies it bears a title in Old English: <I>Cor Tirion þÆlfwinera þǽera béama on middes</I>, and is ‘dedicated to Warwick’; but in another the second title is in Elvish (the second word is not perfectly legible): <I>Narquelion la . . tu y aldalin Kortirionwen</I> (i.e. ‘Autumn (among) the trees of Kortirion’).

<I>Kortirion among the Trees</I>

<I>The First Verses</I>

<SUB>1</SUB> O fading town upon a little hill,

<SUB>2</SUB> Old memory is waning in thine ancient gates,

<SUB>3</SUB> The robe gone gray, thine old heart almost still;

<BR>
\* According to ray father's notes, the original composition dates from November 21-28, 1915, and was written in Warwick on ‘a week's leave from camp’. This is not precisely accurate, since letters to my mother survive that were written from the camp on November 25 and 26, in the second of which he says that he has ‘written out a pencil copy of “Kortirion” ’.

<BR>
† In his letter my father said: <I>‘The Trees</I> is too long and too ambitious, and even if considered good enough would probably upset the boat.’

