---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P251. IX. Commentary
date: 1983-01-01 04:11
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 251
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary", 'Almaren', 'Alum', 'Children of Ilúvatar', 'Daman', 'Danos', 'Dana', 'Fanuin', 'Gods', 'Hildor', 'Lathos', 'Lathweg', 'Lúmin', 'Melko', 'Melkor', 'Middle-earth', 'Men', 'Morgoth', 'Noldoli', 'Quendi', 'Ranuin', 'Ranos', 'Ranoth', 'Rôn', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Tilion', 'Tirion', 'Utumno', 'Hiding of Valinor']
description: 
published: true
---

<I>Danuin    < Danos <</I> an illegible form <I>Dan.</I>.

<I>Ranuin    < Ranos < Ranoth < Rôn</I>

<I>Fanuin    < Lathos < Lathweg</I>

Throughout the remainder of the passage: <I>Danuin < Dana; Ranuin < Ranoth; Fanuin < Lathweg</I>.

<I>Aluin    < Lúmin</I>.

<BR>
Commentary on <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I>

The account of the Council of the Valar and Eldar in the opening of this tale (greatly developed from the preliminary draft given in [note 2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p248)) is remarkable and important in the history of my father's ideas concerning the Valar and their motives. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 102) the Hiding of Valinor sprang from the assault of Melkor on the steersman of the Moon:

But seeing the assault upon Tilion the Valar were in doubt, fearing what the malice and cunning of Morgoth might yet contrive against them. Being unwilling to make war upon him in Middle-earth, they remembered nonetheless the ruin of Almaren; and they resolved that the like should not befall Valinor.

A little earlier in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 99) reasons are given<BR>for the unwillingness of the Valar to make war:

It is said indeed that, even as the Valar made war upon Melkor for the sake of the Quendi, so now for that time they forbore for the sake of the Hildor, the Aftercomers, the younger Children of Ilúvatar. For so grievous had been the hurts of Middle-earth in the war upon Utumno that the Valar feared lest even worse should now befall; whereas the Hildor should be mortal, and weaker than the Quendi to withstand fear and tumult. Moreover it was not revealed to Manwë where the beginning of Men should be, north, south, or east. Therefore the Valar sent forth light, but made strong the land of their dwelling.

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> there is no vestige of the tumultuous council, no suggestion of a disagreement among the Valar,

