---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P250.
date: 1983-01-01 04:10
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 250
characters: 
tags: ["Name change", 'Ailios', 'Ainairos', 'Door of Night', 'Double Mirth']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the East again, but there there is no door and the Wall of Things is lower; and filled with the lightness of the morning Kalavénë rides above it and dawn is split upon the Eastern hills and falls upon the eyes of Men. ’ Part of this, from ‘but there there is no door’, was bracketed, and the passage about the great arch in the East and the Gates of Morn introduced. In the following sentence, the draft had ‘back over the Eastern Wall’, changed to the reading of the second text, ‘back unto the Eastern Wall’. For the name <I>Kalavénë</I> see <a href="{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p222">p. 222</a>.
</p>

[17]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p244) I.e., until the Sunship issues forth, through the Door of Night, into the outer dark; as the Sunship leaves, the shooting stars pass back into the sky.

[18]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p244) The second version of this part of Vairë's tale, ‘The Haven of the Sun’, follows the original draft (as emended) fairly closely, with no differences of any substance; but the part of her tale that now follows, ‘The Weaving of the Days and Months and Years', is wholly absent from the draft text.

[19]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p247) This concluding passage differs in several points from the original version. In that, Ailios appears again, for Gilfanon; the ‘great foreboding’ was spoken among the Gods ‘when they designed first to build the Door of Night’; and when Ilinsor has followed Urwendi through the Gates ‘Melko will destroy the Gates and raise the Eastern Wall beyond the [?skies] and Urwendi and Ilinsor shall be lost’.

<BR>
Changes made to names in <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I>

<I>Vansamírin   < Samírien's road (Samírien</I> occurs as the name of the Feast of Double Mirth, [pp. 157-9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p157)).

<I>Kôr  < Kortirion</I> ([p. 233]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p233)). Afterwards, though <I>Kôr</I> was not struck out, my father wrote above it <I>Tûn</I>, with a query, and the same at the occurrence of <I>Kôr</I> on [p. 237]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p237). This is the first appearance in the text of the <I>Lost Tales</I> of this name, which ultimately gave rise to <I>Túna</I> (the hill on which Tirion was built).

<I>Ainairos    < Oivárin</I>.

<I>Moritarnon, Tarn Fui</I> The original draft of the tale has <I>‘Móritar</I> or <I>Tarna Fui’</I>.

<I>Sári  </I> The original draft has <I>Kalavénë</I> (see [p. 222]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p222) and note 13).

At the first occurrence of the names of the three Sons of Time the sequence of forms was:

