---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P241.
date: 1983-01-01 04:01
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 241
characters: 
glossaries: ['or ... or']
tags: ['Earth-lady']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
therein, and they were weighed down by the thought of Melko and the wandering of the Gnomes; yet did the other folk of Valinor trouble themselves little with such matters yet. Nonetheless Manwë ventured to speak once more to the Valar, albeit he uttered no word of Men, and he reminded them that in their labours for the concealment of their land they had let slip from thought the waywardness of the Sun and Moon. Now it was the fear of Manwë lest the Earth become unbearable by reason of the great light and heat of those bright things, and Yavanna's heart was in accord with him in that, but the most of the Valar and the Elves saw good in his design because in the lifting of the Sun and Moon to higher paths they thought to set a final end to all their labours, removing those piercing beams more far, that all those hills and regions of their abode be not too bright illumined, and that none might ever again espy them afar off.
</p>

Wherefore said some: “Let us send now messengers to discover the fashion of the world in the uttermost East beyond even the sight of Manwë from the Mountain of the World.” Then arose Oromë: “That I can tell you, for I have seen. In the East beyond the tumbled lands there is a silent beach and a dark and empty sea.” And the Gods marvelled at these tidings, yet never before had any save Oromë listed to see or hear such things, not even Yavanna the Earth-lady. Nought do I say of Ulmo Vailimo, Lord of Vai, for of a truth all such matters he knew from the beginning of the Earth. Now therefore did that ancient one follow Oromë, expounding to the Valar what was the secret nature of the Earth, and he said:

”Lo, there is but one Ocean, and that is Vai, for those that Ossë esteemeth as oceans are but seas, waters that lie in the hollows of the rock; but Vai runneth from the Wall of Things unto the Wall of Things whithersoever you may fare. Now to the North is it so cold that even its pale waters are frozen to a depth beyond thought or sounding, and to the South is such utter darkness and deceit by reason of Ungoliont<SUP>[12]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p249)</SUP> that none save I alone may find a way. In this vast water floateth the wide Earth upheld by the word of Ilúvatar, for nought else or fish or bark will swim therein to whom I have not spoken the great word that Ilúvatar said to me and bound them with the spell; but of the wide Earth is even Valinor a part, and the substance of the Earth is stone and metal, and the

