---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P248. IX. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 04:08
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 248
characters: 
tags: ["Notes", 'Ailios', 'Gnomes', 'Gods', 'Great Lands', 'Ilúvatar', 'Kôr', 'Lindo', 'Melko', 'Men', 'the Music of Ilúvatar', 'Noldoli', 'Ónen', 'Ossë', 'Outer Lands', 'Ówen', 'Solosimpi', 'Sun, The', 'Teleri', 'Uinen', 'Ulmo', 'Oinen']
description: 
published: true
---

<BR>
NOTES

[1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p234) ‘they’: original reading ‘the Solosimpi’.

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p235) The rejected draft text of the tale to this point is remarkably brief, and reads as follows (following on from Ailios’ remarks given on [p. 221]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p221), note 20):

‘That is easy told,’ said Lindo; ‘for the murmurings that I have spoken of grew ever louder, and came to speech at that council which was now summoned to fix the courses of the Sun and Moon; and all the ancient grievance that had flamed before at Melko's instigation concerning the freedom of the Elves — even that strife that ended in the Exile of the Noldoli — grew sore again. Yet were few now in pity of the Gnomes, and such of the Eldar whom the newlit world allured dared not for the power of Melko break from Valinor; wherefore in the end the enemies of the Gnomes, despite all that Ulmo might say or plead, and despite the clemency of Manwë, carried the counsels of the Gods — and so came that which stories name the [Closing > ] Hiding of Valinor. And the Gods went not at that time forth to fight Melko, and their greatest opportunity for glory and eternal honour was let slip, [even as the Music of Ilúvatar had foreboded — and they little understood it — and who knows if the salvation of the world and the freeing of Men and Elves shall ever come from them again? Some there are who whisper that it is not so, and hope dwelleth only in a far land of Men, but how so that may be I do not know.]

The concluding passage is thus bracketed in the manuscript, with a question-mark against it.

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p236) The word looks like ‘east’. The word ‘eastward’ was added to the text, and it may be that my father intended to change ‘east’ to ‘eastward edge’ or something similar.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p237) Here ‘Earth’ is clearly used, if strangely so, in the same way as is ‘the world’, to mean the Great Lands as distinguished from the Outer Lands of the West.

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p237) The Teleri (i.e. the later Vanyar) had not in the old story departed from Kôr (see [p. 176]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p176)).

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p238) Originally <I>Ówen</I> and then <I>Ónen</I>, the name of Ossë's wife has already appeared in the final form <I>Uinen</I> (pp. [131]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p131), [215]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p215)); but <I>Oinen</I> here is clear, and clearly intended.

