---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P88.
date: 1983-01-01 01:28
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 88
characters: 
tags: ['Great Lands', 'Great Sea(s)', 'i Nori Landar', 'Haloisi Velikë', 'Ilúvatar', 'Ilwë', 'Koivië-néni', 'Magic Isles', 'Lonely Island', 'Lonely Isle', 'I Tolli Kuruvar', 'Moon, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<I>Harmalin  </I> Earlier name <I>of Arvalin</I> (see [p. 80]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p80)).

<I>i aldas   </I> ‘The Trees' (standing to the west of Taniquetil).

<I>Toros valinoriva Toros</I> is obscure, but in any case the first letter of the first word, if it is a T, is a very uncharacteristic one. The reference seems to be to the Mountains of Valinor.

<I>Tolli Kimpelear</I> These must be the Twilit Isles, but I have found no other occurrence of <I>Kimpelear</I> or anything similar.

<I>Tol Eressëa </I> ‘The Lonely Isle’.

<I>I Tolli Kuruvar   </I> ‘The Magic Isles'.

<I>Haloisi Velike   </I> ‘The Great Sea’.

<I>Ô </I> ‘The Sea’. (What is the structure at the sea-bottom shown below the name Ô? It must surely be the dwelling of Ossë beneath the Great Sea that is referred to in the next tale ([p. 113]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p113)).)

<I>I Nori Landar  </I> Probably means ‘The Great Lands'.

<I>Koivienéni</I> The precursor of <I>Cuiviénen</I>, the Waters of Awakening.

<I>Palisor  </I> The land where the Elves awoke.

<I>Sil  </I> ‘Moon’.

<I>Ûr </I> ‘Sun’.

<I>Luvier  </I> ‘Clouds'.

<I>Oronto   </I> ‘East’.

<I>Vaitya, Ilwë</I>, and <I>Vilna</I> appear in the three layers described in the tale ([p. 65]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p65)), and <I>Vilna</I> reappears in the bottom right-hand comer of the drawing. There is nothing said in the <I>Lost Tales</I> to explain this last feature, nor is it at all evident what is represented by the curled lines in the same place (see [p. 89]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p89)).

<I>Ulmonan  </I> The halls of Ulmo.

Uin   The Great Whale, who appears later in the <I>Tales</I>.

<I>Vai  </I> The Outer Ocean.

<I>Neni Erúmear   </I> ‘Outermost Waters' = <I>Vai</I>.

<BR>

It is seen from the drawing that the world floats in and upon Vai. This is indeed how Ulmo himself describes it to the Valar in a later tale ([p. 241]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p241)):

Lo, there is but one Ocean, and that is Vai, for those that Ossë esteemeth as oceans are but seas, waters that lie in the hollows of the rock ... In this vast water floateth the wide Earth upheld by the world of Ilúvatar . . .

