---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P291.
date: 1983-01-01 04:51
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 291
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 291
</p>

Flowers' (Gnomish name of Alalminórë). For <I>Gar </I>see <I>Dor Faidwen. </I>GL gives <I>lost </I>‘blossom’ and <I>lôs </I>‘flower’, but it is noted that they are probably unconnected and that <I>lôs </I>is more likely to be related to <I>lass </I>‘leaf, also used to mean ‘petal’. (QL has <I>lassë </I>‘leaf, <I>lasselanta </I>‘the Fall, Autumn’.) See <I>Lindelos.</I>

<B>Glorvent   </B>For the element <I>Glor- </I>see <I>Laurelin. — </I>GL had <I>Glorben(d) </I>‘ship of gold’, changed later to <I>Glorvent </I>‘boat of gold’; <I>benn </I>‘shape, cut, fashion’, <I>benc, bent </I>‘small boat’. QL has the root VENE ‘shape, cut out, scoop’, with derivatives <I>venië, venwë </I>‘shape, cut’ and <I>venë </I>‘small boat, vessel, dish’. Cf. the title of the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, I <I>Vene Kemen </I>(see p. 86), and the Sun's name <I>i-Kalaventë (Kalavénë).</I>

<B>Golfinweg   </B>See <I>Nólemë, Finwë.</I>

<B>Gondolin </B>QL does not give this name, but <I>ondo </I>‘stone’ appears under root ONO ‘hard’. In GL <I>Gondolin </I>is said to=Qenya <I>Ondolin </I>(changed to <I>Ondolinda) </I>‘singing stone’. There is also an entry <I>gond </I>‘great stone, rock’; later this was changed to <I>gonn, </I>and a note added that <I>Gondolin=Gonn Dolin, </I>together with an entry <I>dólin </I>‘song’. <I>See Lindelos.</I>

<B>Gong   </B>GL gives no other information beyond that cited on p. 279, note 10, but compares <I>sithagong </I>‘dragonfly’ <I>(sitha </I>‘fly’, <I>Sithaloth </I>or <I>Sithaloctha </I>(‘fly-cluster’), the Pleiades).

<B>Gonlath   </B>This is the name of the great rock on Taniquetil to which Fanuin's cable was tied (pp. 246-7); the second element must therefore be Gnomish <I>lath </I>‘a year’, which appears also in the rejected names for Fanuin, <I>Lathos </I>and <I>Lathweg </I>(p. 251). For <I>Gon- </I>see <I>Gondolin.</I>

<B>Gwerlum   </B>This is given in GL with the translation ‘Gloom-weaver’; <I>gwer- </I>‘wind, turn, bend’, but also used in the sense of the root <I>gwidh- </I>‘plait, weave’. QL has a root GWERE ‘whirl, twirl, twist’, but the name <I>Wirilómë </I>of the great Spider is placed under the root GWIÐI, whence also <I>windelë </I>‘loom’, <I>winda </I>‘woof, <I>wistë </I>‘weft’. The name of the great eddy <I>Wiruin </I>(p. 167), not in the dictionaries, must belong here. For the element <I>-lómë, -lum </I>see <I>Hisilómë.</I>

