---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P160.
date: 1983-01-01 02:40
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 160
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Bruithwir', 'Children of the Gods', 'Fëanor', 'Fui', 'go-Maidros', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Mandos', 'Manwë', 'Melko', 'Mountains of Valinor', 'Noldoli', 'Oromë', 'Pipers of the Shore', 'Silmarils', 'Talkamarda', 'Tulkas', 'Two Trees', 'World, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
between himself and all those other folk of Valinor, for he had slain the Noldoli — guests of the Valar — before the doors of their own homes. With his own hand indeed he slew Bruithwir father of Fëanor,<SUP><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p171">3</a></SUP> and bursting into that rocky house that he defended laid hands upon those most glorious gems, even the Silmarils, shut in a casket of ivory. Now all that great treasury of gems he despoiled, and lading himself and all his companions to the utmost he seeks how he may escape.
</p>

Know then that Oromë had great stables and a breeding ground of good horses not so far from this spot, where a wild forest land had grown up. Thither Melko steals, and a herd of black horses he captures, cowing them with the terror that he could wield. Astride those his whole company of thieves rides far away, after destroying what things of lesser value they deemed it impossible to cany thence. Making a wide circuit and faring with the speed of hurricanes such as only the divine horses of Oromë ridden by the children of the Gods could compass they pass far to the west of Valmar in the untracked regions where the light of the Trees was thin. Long ere the folk had come down from Taniquetil and long ere the end of the feast or ever the Noldoli fared back to find their homes despoiled, Melko and his [?thieves] were ridden to the deep south, and finding there a low place in the hills they passed into the plains of Eruman. Well might Aulë and Tul-kas bemoan their carelessness in leaving that low place long ago when they reared those hills to fend all evil from the plain — for that was the place where they were accustomed to enter Valinor after their quarryings in the fields of Ar-valin.<SUP>[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p171)</SUP> It is said indeed that this riding in a half-circle, laborious and perilous as it was, was at first no part of Melko's design, for rather had he purposed to get to northward over the passes nigh to Mandos; but this he was warned might not be done, for Mandos and Fui never left those realms, and all the ravines and chasms of the northward mountains were infested with their folk, nor for all his gloom was Mandos any rebel against Manwë or an abetter of evil deeds.

Far to the north if one may endure the colds as Melko could it is said in ancient lore that the Great Seas narrow to a little thing, and without aid of ships Melko and his company might thus have got into the world safely; but this was

