---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P311. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:11
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 311
characters: ['Tilkal', 'Timpinen', 'Tinfang', 'Tinwë Linto', 'Tinwelint', 'Tinwetári']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
‘the Lord of Cats' (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p42">p. 42</a>). The Gnomish form is <I>Tifil</I>, ‘Prince of Cats'.
</p>

<B>Tilkal</B>   A name made up of the initial sounds of six names of metals (see [pp. 106-7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p106) and footnote). For <I>tambë</I> ‘copper’ see <I>Aulë</I>, and for il<I>sa</I> ‘silver’ see <I>Ilsaluntë. Latúken</I> ‘tin’ is given as a separate entry in QL, with <I>latukenda</I> ‘of tin’; the Gnomish form is <I>ladog. Kanu</I> ‘lead’, <I>kanuva</I> ‘leaden’ are placed under a root KANA in QL. For <I>anga</I> ‘iron’ see <I>[Angamandi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Angamandi)</I>, and for <I>laurë</I> ‘gold’ see <I>[Laurelin]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Laurelin)</I>.

<B>Timpinen</B>   The name stands in QL as the only derivative of a root TIFI, but under root TIPI are given <I>timpë</I> ‘fine rain’, <I>timpinë</I> ‘spray’, etc. See <I>[Tinfang]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tinfang)</I>.

<B>Tinfang</B>   The entry in GL is: <I>‘Tinfing</I> or <I>Tinfang</I> the fluter (surnamed <I>Gwarbilin</I> or Birdward), a fay; cf. Q. <I>tim-pinen</I> a fluter <I>(Timpando, Varavilindo)’</I>. Other Gnomish words are <I>tif-</I> ‘whistle’, <I>timpa-</I> ‘ring, jingle’, <I>timpi</I> ‘little bell’, <I>timp</I> ‘hoot, note of a flute’, <I>tifin</I> ‘small flute’. The first element in <I>Gwarbilin</I> is seen also in <I>Amon Gwareth</I> ‘Hill of Watch’, which occurs in the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin;</I> the second is <I>bilin(c)</I> ‘sparrow, small bird’.

<B>Tinwë Linto, Tinwelint</B> GL has: <I>‘Tinweg</I> (also <I>Lintin-weg)</I> and more usually <I>Tinwelint</I>, =Q. <I>Tinwë Linto;</I> originally leader of the Solosimpi (after led by Ellu), but became King of the Lost Elves of Artanor’. The first element of the name is derived from TIN-, with such derivatives as <I>tim</I> ‘spark, gleam, (star)’, <I>tintiltha</I> ‘twinkle’, <I>tinwithli</I> ‘star-cluster, constellation’. The second element is possibly Gnomish <I>lint</I> ‘quick, nimble, light’ — which my father referred to in his essay ‘A Secret Vice’ <I>(The Monsters and the Critics and Other Essays</I>, 1983, p. 205) as a word he remembered from a very early stage of his linguistic constructions. The name is not in QL either in the earlier form <I>(Linwë Tinto</I>, [p. 141]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p141)) or the later, but under root TINI are <I>tinwë</I> ‘star’, <I>tint</I> ‘(silver) spark’, etc., and also <I>lintitinwë</I> ‘having many stars', the first element of this being a multiplicative prefix <I>li-, lin-</I>. Cf. <I>[Tinwetári]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tinwetári)</I>.

<B>Tinwetári</B>   ‘Queen of Stars'.  For the elements of this

