---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P224.
date: 1983-01-01 03:44
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 224
characters: 
tags: ['Arcturus', 'Cottage of Lost Play', 'Eā']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the development of the story — was there from the beginning; as also was Yavanna's thought, expressed in <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 78:
</p>

Even for those who are mightiest under Ilúvatar there is some work that they may accomplish once, and once only. The Light of the Trees I brought into being, and within Eä I can do so never again.

Yavanna's reference to the Magic Sun and its relighting (which has appeared in the toast drunk in the evening in the Cottage of Lost Play, pp. [6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p6), [64]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p64)) is obviously intended to be obscure at this stage.

There is no later reference to the story of the wastage of light by Lórien and Vána, pouring it over the roots of the Trees unavailingly.

Turning to Lindo's account of the stars ([pp. 202-3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p202)), <I>Mor-winyon</I> has appeared in an earlier tale ([p. 122]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p122)), with the story that Varda dropped it ‘as she fared in great haste back to Valinor’, and that it ‘blazes above the world's edge in the west’; in the present tale Morwinyon (which according to both the Qenya and Gnomish word-lists is Arcturus) is again strangely represented as being a luminary always of the western sky. It is said here that while some of the stars were guided by the Mánir and the Súruli ‘on mazy courses', others, including Morwinyon and Nielluin, ‘abode where they hung and moved not’. Is the explanation of this that in the ancient myths of the Elves there was a time when the regular apparent movement of all the heavenly bodies from East to West had not yet begun? This movement is nowhere explained mythically in my father's cosmology.

Nielluin (‘Blue Bee’) is Sirius (in <I>The Silmarillion</I> called <I>Helluin)</I>, and this star had a place in the legend of Telimektar son of Tulkas, though the story of his conversion into the constellation of Orion was never clearly told (cf. <I>Telumehtar</I> ‘Orion’ in <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> Appendix E, I). Nielluin was Inwë's son Ingil, who followed Telimektar ‘in the likeness of a great bee bearing honey of flame’ (see the Appendix on Names under <I>Ingil</I> and <I>Telimektar</I>).

The course of the Sun and Moon between East and West (rather than in some other direction) is here given a rationale,

