---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P313.
date: 1983-01-01 05:13
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 313
characters: ['Tulkas', 'Tulkastor', 'Tuor', 'Turgon', 'Turuhalmë', 'Uin', 'Uinen', 'Ulmo']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
QL under root TULU ‘fetch, bring, bear; move, come’ has the verb <I>tulu-</I> of the same meaning, also <I>tulwë</I> ‘pillar, standard, pole’, <I>tulma</I> ‘bier’. GL has <I>tul-</I> ‘bring; come’, <I>tultha-</I> ‘lift, carry’.
</p>

<B>Tulkas</B>   QL gives the name under root TULUK, with <I>tulunka</I> ‘steady, firm’, <I>tulka-</I> ‘fix, set up, establish’. The Gnomish form is <I>Tulcus (-os)</I>, with related words <I>tulug</I> ‘steady, firm’, <I>tulga-</I> ‘make firm, settle, steady, comfort’.

<B>Tulkastor</B>   The name does not appear in the dictionaries (nor the precedent forms, <I>Tulkassë, Turenbor</I>, [p. 22]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p22)); see <I>Tulkas, Meril-i-Turinqi</I>.

<B>Tuor</B>    <I>Tuor</I> is not given in the dictionaries, but it is probably derived (since the name is also written <I>Tûr</I>) from the root TURU ‘be strong’; see <I>[Meril-i-Turinqi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Meril-i-Turinqi)</I>.

<B>Turgon</B>   Neither <I>Turondo</I> nor Gnomish <I>Turgon</I> are given in the dictionaries, and beyond the likelihood that the first element is from the root TURU (see <I>Meril-i-Turinqi</I>) these names cannot be explained.

<B>Turuhalmë</B>   ‘The Logdrawing’ ([p. 259]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p259)). A second root TURU (TUSO) ‘kindle’ in QL (differing in the medial consonant from TURU ‘be strong’) has many derivatives: <I>turu-, tunda-</I> ‘kindle’, <I>turu</I> ‘properly=firewood, but used of wood in general’, <I>turúva</I> ‘wooden’, <I>tusturë</I> ‘tinder’, etc. In GL are <I>duru</I> ‘wood: pole, beam, or log’, <I>durog</I> ‘wooden’.

The second element is in Gnomish <I>halm</I> ‘drawing, draught (of fishes etc.)’. The name of the festival is <I>Du-ruchalmo(s)=Halm nadhuruthon (Duruchalm</I> was written in the text and struck out, p. 278), translated ‘Yule’; this was changed later to <I>Durufui</I> ‘Yule (night), i.e. Log-night’ (see <I>[Fui]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Fui)</I>).

<B>Uin</B>   See <I>[Ónen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ónen)</I>. In GL <I>uin</I> is a common noun, ‘whale’, named after <I>Uin</I> ‘Gulma's great whale’ <I>(Gulma = Ulmo);</I> but apparently (though this entry is rather obscure) the original meaning of <I>uin</I>, preserved in poetry, was ‘wave’. Another Gnomish word for ‘whale’ is <I>uimoth</I> ‘sheep of the waves' <I>(moth</I> ‘sheep’, also ‘1000’, probably originally ‘flock’; <I>mothweg</I> ‘shepherd’).

<B>Uinen</B>   See <I>[Ónen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ónen)</I>.

<B>Ulmo</B>   <I>Ulmo</I> is given in QL under the root ULU ‘pour, flow

