---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P245.
date: 1983-01-01 04:05
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 245
characters: 
glossaries: ['rede']
tags: ['Aulë', 'Daman', 'Door of Night', 'Fanuin']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
strength untamed. And one that stood at the left was exceeding small and short, and another amidmost of middle stature, and the third was long and tall; and the first had short hair and a small beard, and the other's was neither long nor short, but the beard of the third swept the earth before his feet as he walked. Now after a while he that was short and small spake in answer to Manwë, and he said: “Brothers are we; and men of exceeding subtle craft”; and the other answered: “Lo, Danuin, Ranuin, and Fanuin are we called,* and I am Ranuin, and Danuin has spoken.” Then said Fanuin: “And we will offer thee our skill in your perplexity — yet who we are and whence we come or whither we go that we will tell to you only if ye accept our rede and after we have wrought as we desire.”
</p>

Then some of the Gods said them nay, fearing a trick (even perhaps of Melko), and others would grant their request, and such was the counsel that in the end prevailed because of the great perplexity of the time. Then did those three Danuin and Ranuin and Fanuin beg that a room might be set apart for them; and this was done in Aulë's house. There did they spin and weave in secret, and after a space of twice twelve hours Danuin came forth and spake to Manwë, saying: “Behold my handicraft!”; and none knew his intent, for his hands were empty. But when the Ship of the Sun returned then went Danuin to her stern, and laying his hand thereon he bid Ulmo draw her, as was his wont, over the waters to the Door of Night; and when Ulmo was gone a little way from the further shore of Valinor Danuin stepped back, and behold Ulmo might not draw the Sunship further, not though he put forth all his strength. Then were Manwë and Ulmo and all that beheld afraid, but Danuin after released the Sun and went from among them, and they might not find him; but after twenty nights and eight came forth Ranuin and he said also: “Behold my handicraft!” and yet no more could be seen in his outstretched hands than before in those of Danuin. Now Ranuin waited until Ilinsor brought the Rose of Silpion unto Valinor, and then going he set his hands against a jag of glass upon that isle, and thereafter might no man stir

<BR>
\* In the margin is written <I>Dōgor Mönaþ</I> 7 <I>Missére</I>, Old English words meaning ‘Day, Month, and Year’.

