---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P308. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:08
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 308
characters: ['Súruli', 'Talka Marda', 'Taniquetil', 'Tanyasalpë', 'Tári-Laisi', 'Legolas']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<B>Súruli</B>  See <I>[Súlimo]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Súlimo)</I>. Súruli is not in QL, but GL has <I>Sulus</I> (plurals <I>Sulussin</I> and <I>Sulithrim)</I> ‘one of Manwë's two clans of air-spirits, Q. <I>Súru</I> plural <I>Súruli’</I>.

<B>Talka Marda</B> This title of Aulë, translated in the text ([p. 201]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p201)) as ‘Smith of the World’, is not found in QL, but GL gives <I>‘Martaglos</I>, correctly <I>Maltagros</I>, title of Óla, Smith of the World’ as the equivalent of Qenya <I>Talka Marwa;</I> also <I>tagros, taglos</I> ‘smith’. He is also called <I>Óla Mar;</I> and in the Valar name-list <I>Aulë Mar</I>. (Long afterwards this title of Aulë reappeared. In a very late note he is given the name <I>mbartanō</I> ‘world-artificer’ > Quenya <I>Martamo</I>, Sindarin <I>Barthan.)</I>

<B>Taniquetil</B>  Under the root TAHA (see <I>[Qalmë-Tárí]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Qalmë-Tárí)) Taniqetil</I> is given in QL with the meaning ‘lofty snowcap’. The second element is from root NIQI <I>(ninqë</I> ‘white’, <I>niqis</I> ‘snow’, <I>niqetil</I> ‘snowcap’; cf. <I>nieninqë</I> ‘white tear’ (snowdrop) in entry <I>Nielíqui)</I>.

The Gnomish form is <I>Danigwethil (dâ</I> ‘high’), but the second element seems to be different, since GL gives a word <I>nigweth</I> ‘storm (properly of snow, but that sense has evaporated)’.

<B>Tanyasalpë</B>  Translated in the text ‘the bowl of fire’ ([p. 209]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p209)). <I>Salpa</I> ‘bowl’ is given in QL under a root SLPL, with <I>sulp-</I> ‘lick’, <I>salpa</I> ‘take a sup of, <I>sulpa</I> ‘soup’. <I>Tanya</I> is not in QL; GL has <I>tan</I> ‘firewood’, <I>tantha-</I> ‘kindle’, <I>tang</I> ‘flame, flash’, and <I>Tanfa</I> ‘the lowest of all airs, the hot air of the deep places'.

<B>Tári-Laisi</B>   For <I>Tári</I> see <I>[Qalmë-Tárí]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Qalmë-Tárí)</I>. In QL the root LAYA ‘be alive, flourish’ has derivatives <I>lairë</I> ‘meadow’, <I>laiqa</I> ‘green’, <I>laito</I> and <I>laisi</I> both meaning ‘youth, vigour, new life’. The Gnomish words are <I>laib</I> (also <I>glaib)</I> ‘green, <I>laigos</I> ‘greenness, =Q. <I>laiqassë’, lair</I> (also <I>glair)</I> ‘meadow’. The following note is of great interest: ‘Note <I>Laigolas=</I>green-leaf [see <I>[Gar Lossion]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Gar%20Lossion)</I>]<I></I>, becoming archaic because of final form becoming <I>laib</I>, gave <I>Legolast</I> i.e. keen-sight <I>[last</I> ‘look, glance’, <I>leg, lêg</I> ‘keen, piercing’]. But perhaps both were his names, as the Gnomes delighted to give two similar-sounding names of dissimilar meaning, as <I>Laigolas Legolast, Turin Turambar</I>, etc. <I>Legolas</I> the ordinary form is a

