---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P26.
date: 1983-01-01 00:26
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 26
characters: 
tags: ['Alalminórë']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>4</SUB> The castle only, frowning, ever waits

<SUB>5</SUB> And ponders how among the towering elms

<SUB>6</SUB> The Gliding Water leaves these inland realms

<SUB>7</SUB> And slips between long meadows to the western sea —

<SUB>8</SUB> Still bearing downward over murmurous falls

<SUB>9</SUB> One year and then another to the sea;

<SUB>10</SUB> And slowly thither have a many gone

<SUB>11</SUB> Since first the fairies built Kortirion.

<SUB>12</SUB> O spiry town upon a windy hill

<SUB>13</SUB> With sudden-winding alleys shady-walled

<SUB>14</SUB> (Where even now the peacocks pace a stately drill,

<SUB>15</SUB> Majestic, sapphirine, and emerald),

<SUB>16</SUB> Behold they girdle of a wide champain

<SUB>17</SUB> Sunlit, and watered with a silver rain,

<SUB>18</SUB> And richly wooded with a thousand whispering trees

<SUB>19</SUB> That cast long shadows in many a bygone noon,

<SUB>20</SUB> And murmured many centuries in the breeze.

<SUB>21</SUB> Thou art the city of the Land of Elms,

<SUB>22</SUB> Alalminórë in the Faery Realms.

<SUB>23</SUB> Sing of thy trees, old, old Kortirion!

<SUB>24</SUB> Thine oaks, and maples with their tassels on,

<SUB>25</SUB> Thy singing poplars; and the splendid yews

<SUB>26</SUB> That crown thine agéd walls and muse

<SUB>27</SUB> Of sombre grandeur all the day —

<SUB>28</SUB> Until the twinkle of the early stars

<SUB>29</SUB> Is tangled palely in their sable bars;

<SUB>30</SUB> Until the seven lampads of the Silver Bear

<SUB>31</SUB> Swing slowly in their shrouded hair

<SUB>32</SUB> And diadem the fallen day.

<SUB>33</SUB> O tower and citadel of the world!

<SUB>34</SUB> When bannered summer is unfurled

<SUB>35</SUB> Most full of music are thine elms —

<SUB>36</SUB> A gathered sound that overwhelms

<SUB>37</SUB> The voices of all other trees.

<SUB>38</SUB> Sing then of elms, belov'd Kortirion,

<SUB>39</SUB> How summer crowds their full sails on,

<SUB>40</SUB> Like clothed masts of verdurous ships,

<SUB>41</SUB> A fleet of galleons that proudly slips

<SUB>42</SUB> Across long sunlit seas.

