---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P306.
date: 1983-01-01 05:06
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 306
characters: ['Rúmil', 'Salmar', 'Samírien', 'Sári', 'Sil', 'Silindrin', 'Silmarilli', 'Silmo', 'Silpion', 'Silubrilthin', 'Sirion']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
frost’, <I>rin</I> ‘dew’; GL rî ‘coolness’, <I>ring</I> ‘cool, cold, a sudden breeze or cold breath’, and (a later addition) <I>Ringli</I> ‘the arctic colds, the North Pole (see the tale of the Coming of the Ainur)’. Cf. <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Qerkaringa">Qerkaringa</a></I>.
</p>

<B>Rúmil</B> This name is not found in either dictionary, but seems likely to be connected with words given in GL: <I>rû</I> and <I>rûm</I> ‘secret, mystery’, <I>ruim</I> ‘secret, mysterious’, <I>rui</I> ‘whisper’, <I>ruitha</I> ‘to whisper’.

<B>Salmar</B>   This name must belong with derivatives of the root SALA: <I>salma</I> ‘lyre’, <I>salmë</I> ‘harp-playing’, etc.

<B>Samírien</B>   (‘The Feast of Double Mirth’, [p. 157]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p157).) Presumably derived from the root MIRI ‘smile’; <I>sa-</I> is referred to in QL as an ‘intensive prefix’. Cf. <I>[Vansamírin]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Vansamírin)</I>.

<B>Sári</B>   Not in either dictionary, but in QL the root SAHA/ SAHYA yields <I>sâ</I> ‘fire’, <I>saiwa</I> ‘hot’, <I>Sahóra</I> ‘the South'; GL has <I>sâ</I> ‘fire’ (poetic form <I>sai), sairin</I> ‘fiery’, <I>saiwen</I> ‘summer’, and other words.

<B>Sil</B>   Under the root SILI QL gives a long list of words beginning with <I>Sil</I> ‘Moon’ and all with meanings of whiteness or white light, but neither <I>Silpion</I> nor <I>Silmaril</I> occurs in it. In GL <I>Sil</I> ‘properly = ”Rose of Silpion”, see Tale of the Making of the Sun and Moon, but often used poet-ically=Whole Moon or Rân’. In this tale ([p. 215]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p215)) it is said that the fairies named the Moon ‘Sil, the Rose’ (earlier reading ‘the silver rose’).

<B>Silindrin</B>   The ‘Moon-cauldron’ does not appear in either dictionary; the nearest form is <I>Silindo</I> in QL, which is a name of Jupiter. See <I>[Sil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sil)</I>.

<B>Silmarilli</B>   See <I>[Sil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sil)</I>. In GL the equivalent of 'Q. <I>Silmaril’</I> is <I>silubrill- (silum(b)aril-)</I>, plural <I>silubrilthin</I> (which occurs in the text, p. 138); a later addition compares <I>brithla</I> ‘pearl’, Qenya <I>marilla</I> (not in QL). The Tower of Pearl was named in Gnomish <I>Tirimbrithla</I>.

<B>Silmo</B>   See <I>[Sil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sil)</I>. In QL <I>Silmo</I> is translated ‘the Moon’, and in GL <I>Silma</I> is given as the Gnomish equivalent of Qenya <I>Silmo</I>.

<B>Silpion</B>   See <I>[Sil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sil)</I>. The Gnomish names are <I>Silpios</I> or <I>Piosil</I>, but no meaning is given.

<B>Silubrilthin</B>   See <I>[Silmarilli]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Silmarilli)</I>.

<B>Sirion</B>   QL root SIRI ‘flow’, with derivatives <I>sindi</I> ‘river’ (cf.

