---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P63. III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR
date: 1983-01-01 01:03
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 63
characters: 
glossaries: ['an']
tags: ['Eriol', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Magic Isles', 'Moon, The', 'Men', 'Outer Lands']
description: 
published: true
---

As I have already noticed, the next tale is linked to <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> without narrative break; and it has no title in the text. It is contained in three separate books (the <I>Lost Tales</I> were written in the most bewildering fashion, with sections from different tales interleaved with each other); and on the cover of the book that has the opening section, following on <I>The Music of the Ainur</I>, is written: ‘containeth also the Coming of the Valar and beginneth the Building of Valinor’. The text is in ink, written over an erased pencil manuscript.

Then when Rúmil finished and fell silent Eriol said after a pause: ‘Great are these tidings and very new and strange in my ears, yet doth it seem that most whereof you have yet told happened outside this world, whereas if I know now wherefrom comes its life and motion and the ultimate devising of its history, I would still hear many things of the earliest deeds within its borders; of the labours of the Valar I would know, and the great beings of most ancient days. Whereof, tell me, are the Sun or the Moon or the Stars, and how came their courses and their stations? Nay more — whence are the continents of the earth, the Outer Lands, the great seas, and the Magic Isles? Even of the Eldar and their arising and of the coming of Men I would listen to your tales of wisdom and wonder. ’

Then answered Rúmil: ‘Nay, but your questions are nigh as long and wordy as my tales — and the thirst of your curiosity would dry a well deeper than even my lore, an I let you drink and come again unstinted to your liking. Indeed

