---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P14.
date: 1983-01-01 00:14
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 14
characters: 
tags: ['Angeln', 'Angol', 'Beorn', 'Britain', 'Cwén', 'Danish peninsula', 'Earendel', 'England, English', 'Eoh', 'Eriol', 'Eriollo', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Gnomes', 'Heden', 'Heligoland', 'Hengest', 'Hobbit, The', 'Horsa', 'Lindo', 'Noldor', 'North Sea', 'Old English', 'Old Norse', 'Ottor Wǽfre', 'Tol Eressëa', 'Woden']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Old English poetic vocabulary meaning ‘horse’); and Eoh was slain by his brother <I>Beorn</I> (in Old English ‘warrior’, but originally meaning ‘bear’, as does the cognate word <I>björn</I> in Old Norse; cf. Beorn the shape-changer in <I>The Hobbit</I>). Eoh and Beorn were the sons of <I>Heden</I> ‘the leather and fur clad’, and Heden (like many heroes of Northern legend) traced his ancestry to the god Woden. In other notes there are other connections and combinations, and since none of this story was written as a coherent narrative these names are only of significance as showing the direction of my father's thought at that time.
</p>

Ottor Wǽfre settled on the island of Heligoland in the North Sea, and he wedded a woman named <I>Cwén</I> (Old English: ‘woman’, ‘wife’); they had two sons named ‘after his father’ <I>Hengest</I> and <I>Horsa</I> ‘to avenge Eoh’ <I>(hengest</I> is another Old English word for ‘horse’).

Then sea-longing gripped Ottor Wǽfre: he was a son of <I>Earendel</I>, born under his beam. If a beam from Earendel fall on a child new-born he becomes ‘a child of Earendel’ and a wanderer. (So also in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> Eriol is called both by the author and by Lindo a ‘son of Earendel’.) After the death of Cwén Ottor left his young children. Hengest and Horsa avenged Eoh and became great chieftains; but Ottor Wǽfre set out to seek, and find, Tol Eressëa, here called in Old English <I>se uncú þa holm</I>, ‘the unknown island’.

Various things are told in these notes about Eriol’s sojourn in Tol Eressëa which do not appear in <I>The Book of Lost Tales</I>, but of these I need here only refer to the statements that ‘Eriol adopted the name of <I>Angol’</I> and that he was named by the Gnomes (the later Noldor, see p. 38) <I>Angol</I> ‘after the regions of his home’. This certainly refers to the ancient homeland of the ‘English’ before their migration across the North Sea to Britain: Old English <I>Angel, Angul</I>, modern German <I>Angeln</I>, the region of the Danish peninsula between the Flensburg fjord and the river Schlei, south of the modern Danish frontier. From the west coast of the peninsula it is no very great distance to the island of Heligoland.

In another place <I>Angol</I> is given as the Gnomish equivalent of <I>Eriollo</I>, which names are said to be those of ‘the region

