---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P95.
date: 1983-01-01 01:35
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 95
characters: 
tags: ['Angamandi', 'Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Beren', 'Fui', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
mythology (and in this passage, also, there is a strain of another kind of mythic conception, in the ‘conceits' of ‘the distilling of salt humours whereof are tears', and the black clouds woven by Nienna which settle on the world as ‘despairs and hopeless mourning, sorrows and blind grief). Here we learn that Nienna is the judge of Men in her halls named <I>Fui</I> after her own name; and some she keeps in the region of Mandos (where is her hall), while the greater number board the black ship Mornië — which does no more than ferry these dead down the coast to Arvalin, where they wander in the dusk until the end of the world. But yet others are driven forth to be seized by Melko and taken to endure ‘evil days' in Angamandi (in what sense are they dead, or mortal?); and (most extraordinary of all) there are a very few who go to dwell among the Gods in Valinor. We are far away here from the Gift of Ilúvatar, whereby Men are not bound to the world, but leave it, none know where;* and this is the true meaning of Death (for the death of the Elves is a ‘seeming death’, <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 42): the final and inescapable exit.
</p>

But a little illumination, if of a very misty kind, can be shed on the idea of Men, after death, wandering in the dusk of Arvalin, where they ‘camp as they may’ and ‘wait in patience till the Great End’. I must refer here to the details of the changed names of this region, which have been given on p. 80. It is clear from the early word-lists or dictionaries of the two languages (for which see the Appendix on Names) that the meaning of <I>Harwalin</I> and <I>Arvalin</I> (and probably <I>Habbanan</I> also) was ‘nigh Valinor’ or ‘nigh the Valar’. From the Gnomish dictionary it emerges that the meaning of <I>Eru-man</I> was ‘beyond the abode of the Mánir’ (i.e. south of Taniquetil, where dwelt Manwë's spirits of the air), and this

<BR>
\* Cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 104: ‘Some say that they [Men] too go to the halls of Mandos; but their place of waiting there is not that of the Elves, and Mandos under Ilúvatar alone save Manwë knows whither they go after the time of recollection in those silent halls beside the Outer Sea. ’ Also <I>ibid</I>. p. 186: ‘For the spirit of Beren at her bidding tarried in the halls of Mandos, unwilling to leave the world, until Lúthien came to say her last farewell upon the dim shores of the Outer Sea, whence Men that die set out never to return. ’

