---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P278. X. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 04:38
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 278
characters: 
tags: ["Notes", 'Angband', 'Duruchalm', 'Gorfalon', 'Gorfalong', 'Halmadhurwion', 'Great Lands', 'Hisilómë', 'Húrin', 'folk of Húrin', 'Ilúvatar', 'Mountains of Iron', 'Hills of Iron', 'Lost Elves', 'Union of Maedhros']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
becomes the sending of messengers) remotely anticipates the Union of Maedhros (<I>ibid</I>. pp. 188-9) is not clear, though Tinwelint's refusal to join forces with Nólemë survived in Thingol's rejection of Maedhros’ approaches (p. 189). I cannot certainly explain Tinwelint's words ‘Go not into the hills', but I suspect that ‘the hills' are the Mountains of Iron (in <I>The Hiding of Valinor, p</I>. 236, called ‘the Hills of Iron’) above Angband, and that he warned against an attack on Melko; in the old <I>Tale of Turambar</I> Tinwelint said: ‘Of the wisdom of my heart and the fate of the Valar did I not go with my folk to the Battle of Unnumbered Tears. ’
</p>

Other elements in the story of the battle that survived — the steadfastness of the folk of Úrin (Húrin), the escape of Turgon — already existed at this time in a tale that had been written (that of Túrin).

The geographical indications are slight, and there is no map of the Great Lands for the earliest period of the legends; in any case these questions are best left until the tales that take place in those lands. The Vale (or Valley) of the Fountains, afterwards the Valley (or Vale) of Weeping Waters, is in D explicitly equated with Gorfalong, which in the earlier outlines is given as Gorfalon, and seems to be distinct; but in any case neither these, nor ‘the Tumbled Lands', can be brought into relation with any places or names in the later geography — unless (especially since in D Turgon is said to have fled ‘south down Sirion’) it may be supposed that something like the later picture of the Pass of Sirion was already in being, and that the Vale of the Fountains, or of Weeping Waters, was a name for it.

<BR>
NOTES

[1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p259) Above <I>Turuhalmë</I> are written <I>Duruchalm</I> (struck out) and <I>Halmadhurwion</I>.

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p262) This paragraph is marked with queries.

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p262) The word may be read equally well as ‘dim’ or ‘dun’.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p263) The original reading here was: ‘and few of his folk went with him, and this Tû forbade to his folk, fearing the wrath of Ilúvatar and Manwë; yet did’ (sc. curiosity overcome Nuin, etc.).

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p266) Earlier in the <I>Tales</I>, ‘the Lost Elves' are those who were

