---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P228.
date: 1983-01-01 03:48
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 228
characters: 
tags: ['England, English', 'Eriol', 'The Fall of Gondolin', 'Lindo', 'Lúthien', 'Lúthien Tinúviel', 'Melko', 'Moon, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and he would have had to change its references to places in England which were not yet in existence. Although it is very probable that he had something quite different in mind, I think it may be of interest to give this poem in an early form (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p230">p. 230</a>).
</p>

As the mythology evolved and changed, the Making of the Sun and Moon became the element of greatest difficulty; and in the published <I>Silmarillion</I> this chapter does not seem of a piece with much of the rest of the work, and could not be made to be so. Towards the end of his life my father was indeed prepared to dismantle much of what he had built, in the attempt to solve what he undoubtedly felt to be a fundamental problem.

<BR>
Note on the order <I>of the Tales</I>

The development of the <I>Lost Tales</I> is here in fact extremely complex. After the concluding words of <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I>, ‘the story of the darkening of Valinor was at an end’ ([p. 188]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p188)), my father wrote: ‘See on beyond in other books', but in fact he added subsequently the short dialogue between Lindo and Eriol (‘Great was the power of Melko for ill. . . ’) which is given at the end of <I>The Flight of the Noldoli</I>.

The page-numbering of the notebooks shows that the next tale was to be the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>, which is written in another book. This long story (to be given in Part II), the oldest extant version of ‘Beren and Lúthien’, begins with a long <I>Link</I> passage; and the curious thing is that this <I>Link</I> begins with the very dialogue between Lindo and Eriol just referred to, in almost identical wording, and this can be seen to be its original place; but here it was struck through.

I have mentioned earlier ([p. 40]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p40)) that in a letter written by my father in 1964 he said that he wrote <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> while working in Oxford on the staff of the Dictionary, a post that he took up in November 1918 and relinquished in the spring of 1920. In the same letter he said that he wrote ‘ “The Fall of Gondolin” during sick-leave from the army in 1917’, and ‘the original version of the “Tale of Lúthien Tinúviel and Beren” later in the same year’. There is nothing in the manuscripts to suggest that the tales that follow <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> to the point we have now reached were

