---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P257.
date: 1983-01-01 04:17
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 257
characters: 
tags: ['Ailios', 'Children of (the) Earth', 'Daman', 'Door of Night']
description: 
published: true
---

About the World are the <I>Ilurambar</I>, or Walls of the World. They are as ice and glass and steel, being above all imagination of the Children of Earth cold, transparent, and hard. They cannot be seen, nor can they be passed, save by the Door of Night.

Within these walls the Earth is globed: above, below, and upon all sides is <I>Vaiya</I>, the Enfolding Ocean. But this is more like to sea below the Earth and more like to air above the Earth.

See further [p. 88]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p88).

The Tale of Qorinómi ([p. 243]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p243)) was never in fact told — in the first version of the present tale (see note 15 above) it seems that Vairë would have liked to tell it, but felt the beady eye of the captious Ailios upon her. In the early Qenya word-list <I>Qorinómi</I> is defined as ‘the name of the Sun’, literally ‘Drowned in the Sea’, the name being a derivative from a root meaning ‘choke, suffocate, drown’, with this explanation: ‘The Sun, after fleeing from the Moon, dived into the sea and wandered in the caverns of the Oaritsi. ’ <I>Oaritsi</I> is not given in the word-list, but <I>oaris</I> = ‘mermaid’. Nothing is said in the <I>Lost Tales</I> of the Moon giving chase to the Sun; it was the stars of Varda that Ilinsor, ‘huntsman of the firmament’, pursued, and he was ‘jealous of the supremacy of the Sun’ ([p. 218]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p218)).

The conclusion of Vairë's tale, ‘The Weaving of Days, Months, and Years', shows (as it seems to me) my father exploring a mode of mythical imagining that was for him a dead end. In its formal and explicit symbolism it stands quite apart from the general direction of his thought, and he excised it without trace. It raises, also, a strange question. In what possible sense were the Valar ‘outside Time’ before the weavings of Danuin, Ranuin, and Fanuin? In <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> ([p. 53]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p53)) Ilúvatar said: ‘even now the world unfolds <I>and its history begins’;</I> in the final version <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 20) it is said that

The Great Music had been but the growth and flowering of thought in the Timeless Halls, and the Vision only a foreshowing; but now they had entered in at the beginning of Time...

