---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P17.
date: 1983-01-01 00:17
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 17
characters: 
tags: ['Aman', 'England, English', 'Eriol', 'Fairies', 'Faring Forth', 'Great Lands', 'Ingil', 'Inwë', 'Inwir', 'Kôr', 'Koromas', 'Kortirion', 'Lindo', 'lost families of the kindred', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Meril-i-Turinqi', 'Noldoli', 'Silmarillion, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
or know nought of its ancient days. Yet still there be some of the Eldar and the Noldoli* of old who linger in the island, and their songs are heard about the shores of the land that once was the fairest dwelling of the immortal folk.
</p>

And it seems to the fairies and it seems to me who know that town and have often trodden its disfigured ways that autumn and the falling of the leaf is the season of the year when maybe here or there a heart among Men may be open, and an eye perceive how is the world's estate fallen from the laughter and the loveliness of old. Think on Kortirion and be sad — yet is there not hope?

Both here and in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> there are allusions to events still in the future when Eriol came to Tol Eressëa; and though the full exposition and discussion of them must wait until the end of the <I>Tales</I> it needs to be explained here that ‘the Faring Forth’ was a great expedition made from Tol Eressëa for the rescue of the Elves who were still wandering in the Great Lands — cf. Lin-do's words ([pp. 5-6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p5)): ‘until such time as they fare forth to find the lost families of the kindred’. At that time Tol Eressëa was uprooted, by the aid of Ulmo, from the sea-bottom and dragged near to the western shores of the Great Lands. In the battle that followed the Elves were defeated, and fled into hiding in Tol Eressëa; Men entered the isle, and the fading of the Elves began. The subsequent history of Tol Eressëa is the history of England; and Warwick is ‘disfigured Kortirion’, itself a memory of ancient Kôr (the later Tirion upon Tuna, city of the Elves in Aman; in the <I>Lost Tales</I> the name Kôr is used both of the city and the hill).

Inwë, referred to in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> as ‘King of all the Eldar when they dwelt in Kôr’, is the forerunner of Ingwë King of the Vanyar Elves in <I>The Silmarillion</I>. In a story told later to Eriol in Tol Eressëa Inwë reappears as one of the three Elves who went first to Valinor after the Awakening, as was Ingwë in <I>The Silmarillion;</I> his kindred and descendants were the <I>Inwir</I>, of whom came Meril-i-Turinqi, the Lady of Tol Eressëa (see [p. 46]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p46)). Lindo's ref-

<br>
\* For the distinction between <I>Eldar</I> and <I>Noldoli</I> see [pp. 46-7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p46).

