---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P316.
date: 1983-01-01 05:16
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 316
characters: ['Valatúru', 'Valinor', 'Valmar', 'Vána', 'Vána-Laisi', 'Vansamírin', 'Varda']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
or <I>Valdë;</I> other words are <I>valin, valimo</I> ‘happy’, <I>vald-</I>blessedness, happiness. ’
</p>

The Gnomish words are complicated and curious. As first written, there was <I>Ban</I> ‘a god, one of the great Valar’, plural <I>Banin</I>, and <I>'Dor'Vanion=Dor Ban-ion=Gwalien</I> (or <I>Valinor)’</I>. All this was struck out. Elsewhere in GL is given the root GWAL ‘fortune, happiness’: <I>Gwala</I> ‘one of the gods, including their divine folk and children, hence often used of one of the lesser folk as opposed to <I>Ban’; Gwalon</I> and <I>Gwalthi</I> corresponding to Qenya <I>Valon, Valsi; gwalt</I> ‘good luck — any providential occurrence or thought: “the luck of the Valar”, <I>i-walt ne Vanion</I> (Q. <I>valto)’;</I> and other abstract words, as <I>gwalweth</I> ‘fortune, happiness’. Of the later interpretation of <I>Valar</I> there is thus no suggestion. See further under <I>Vána</I>.

<B>Valatúru</B>   See <I>[Valar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Valar), [Meril-i-Turinqi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Meril-i-Turinqi)</I>.

<B>Valinor</B>   In QL two forms are given, <I>Valinor</I> and <I>Valinórë</I> (the latter also occurs in the text, [p. 203]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p203)), both glossed ‘Asgard’ (i.e. the City of the Gods in Norse mythology). For the Gnomish names (<I>Gwalien</I>, etc.) see <I>[Valar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Valar)</I>.

<I>Nórë</I> is found in QL under the root NŌ ‘become, be born’, and is glossed ‘native land, nation, family, country’, also <I>-nor</I>, ‘the form in compounds'. Other words are <I>nosta-</I> ‘give birth’, <I>nosta</I> ‘birth, birthday’, <I>nostalë</I> ‘species, kind’, <I>nossë</I> ‘kin, people’ (as in <I>Aulenossë</I>). The Gnomish form is <I>dôr</I>. see <I>Dor Faidwen</I>.

<B>Valmar</B>   See <I>[Valar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Valar), [Eldamar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Eldamar)</I>.

<B>Vána</B>  A derivative of QL root VANA, together with <I>vanë</I> ‘fair’, <I>vanessë</I> ‘beauty’, <I>vanima</I> ‘proper, right, fair’, <I>úvanimo</I> ‘monster’ (ú- = 'not'), etc. Here also are given <I>Vanar</I> and <I>Vani= Valar, Vali</I>, with the note: 'cf. Gnomish <I>Ban-’</I>. See <I>[Valar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Valar)</I>.

Vána's name in Gnomish was <I>Gwân</I> or <I>Gwani</I> (changed later to <I>Gwann</I> or <I>Gwannuin); gwant, gwan-dra</I> ‘beautiful’, <I>gwanthi</I> ‘beauty’.

<B>Vána-Laisi</B>  See <I>[Vána]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Vána), [Tári-Laisi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tári-Laisi)</I>.

<B>Vansamírin</B> This name replaced <I>Samirien 's road</I> in the text ([p. 250]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p250)). See <I>[Qalvanda]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Qalvanda), [Samírien]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Samírien)</I>.

<B>Varda</B>   In QL the name is given with <I>vard-</I> ‘rule, govern’, <I>vardar</I> ‘king’, <I>varni</I> ‘queen’. In Gnomish <I>Varda</I> was

