---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P220.
date: 1983-01-01 03:40
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 220
characters: 
tags: ['Ailios', 'Aulenossë', 'Aur', 'Eriol', 'Erumańi']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
told tonight or for many a night after, and I shall have fared long back to Tavrobel.’ ‘Nay,’ said Lindo, ‘I will not make the tale overlong, and tomorrow shall be all your own.’ And so saying Gilfanon sighed, but Lindo lifted up his voice . . .
</p>

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p198) ‘lest it be’: this curious expression is clear in the manuscript; the usage seems wholly unrecorded, but the meaning intended must be ‘unless it be’, i.e. ‘to him alone, unless also to Varda . . . ’

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p199) On <I>Telimpë</I> as the name of the ‘Moon-cauldron’, rather than <I>Silindrin</I>, see pp. [80]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p80) and [140]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p140) note 2.

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p199) See pp. [73]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p73), [92]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p72). At previous occurrences the name is <I>Ur-wen</I>, not <I>Urwendi</I>.

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p200) ‘twixt Erumáni and the Sea’: i.e., the Outer Sea, Vai, the western bound of Valinor.

11   The passage beginning ‘For behold, he desired in this manner . . .’ on p. 203 and continuing to this point was added on a detached sheet and replaced a very much shorter passage in which Manwë briefly declared his plan, and nothing was said about the powers of the Valar. But I do not think that the replacement was composed significantly later than the body of the text.

[12]({{sit3.baseurl}}/vol01-p209) The earlier reading here was: ‘Then did the Gods name that ship, and they called her Ûr which is the Sun’, etc.

[13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p209)  The earlier reading here was: ‘and the Gnomes call her Aur the Sun, and Galmir the goldgleamer’, etc.

[14]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p210) An isolated note refers to the coming forth of more wholesome creatures when the Sun arose (i.e. over the Great Lands), and says that ‘all the birds sang in the first dawn’.

[15]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p214) The Aulenossë: see [p. 197]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p197).

[16]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p214) This is the first appearance of the Sons of Fëanor.

[17]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p215) Earlier reading: ‘the silver rose’.

[18]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p215) <I>Urwendi:</I> manuscript <I>Urwandi</I>, but I think that this was probably unintended.

[19]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p217) From this point the text of the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> ceases to be written over an erased pencilled original, and from the same point the original text is extant in another book. In fact, to the end of the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> the differences are slight, no more than alterations of wording; but the original text does explain the fact that at the first occurrence of the name <I>Gilfanon</I> on p. 211 the original reading was <I>Ailios</I>. One would guess in any case that this

