---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P58.
date: 1983-01-01 00:58
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 58
characters: 
tags: ["Notes"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
things of a certainty join in the Second Music of the Ainur, what Ilúvatar has devised for the Eldar beyond the world's end he has not revealed even to the Valar, and Melko has not discovered it. ’
</p>

<BR>
NOTES

1  This opening sentence is lacking in the draft.

[2](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p50) The reference to the setting of the Secret Fire within the Ainur is lacking in the draft.

[3](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p51) This passage, from ’ Now Melko had among the Ainur. . . ’, is developed from one much briefer in the draft: ‘Melko had among the Ainu fared most often alone into the dark places and the voids <I>[added afterwards: </I>seeking the secret fires].’

[4](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p52) The words ‘my song’ and ‘my thought’ were in the text as written in reversed positions, and were emended afterwards in pencil to the reading given. At the beginning of the text occurs the phrase: ‘Before all things he sang into being the Ainur first. ’ Cf. the opening of the <I>Ainulindalë </I>in <I>The Silmarillion: </I>‘The Ainur . . . that were the offspring of his thought.’

<I>[5](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p53)</I> There is no reference here in the draft to Manwë or Aulë.

[6](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p54) This sentence concerning the friendship and alliance of Manwë and Ulmo is lacking in the draft.

[7](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p54) This passage was quite different in the draft text:

And even as Ilu was speaking to Ulmo the Ainu beheld how the great history which Ilu had propounded to them to their amazement and whereto all his glory was but the hall of its enactment — how it was unfolding in myriad complexities even as had been the music they played about the feet of Ilu, how beauty was whelmed in uproar and tumult and again new beauty arose therefrom, how the earth changed and stars went out and stars were kindled, and the air swept about the firmament, and the sun and moon were loosened on their courses and had life.

[8](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p55) This sentence concerning Melko is lacking in the draft.

[9](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p55) In the draft this paragraph reads:

Now Eldar and Men were of Ilu's devising alone, nor had any of the Ainu nor even Melko aught to do with their fashioning, though in truth his music of old and his deeds in the world mightily affected their history thereafter. For

