---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P84.
date: 1983-01-01 01:24
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 84
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Beren', 'Eruman', 'Fui', 'Great Lands', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Inwë', 'Makar', 'Mandos', 'Lúthien', 'Lúthien Tinúviel', 'Meássë', 'Men', 'Outer Lands', 'Outer Sea(s)']
description: 
published: true
---

The ‘Outer Lands' are now defined as the Twilit Isles, <I>Em-man</I> (or Arvalin), and Valinor ([p. 68]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68)). A curious usage, which often appears in the <I>Lost Tales</I>, is the equation of ‘the world’ with the Great Lands, or with the whole surface of the earth west of the Outer Lands; so the mountains ‘towered mightily between Valinor and the world’ ([p. 70]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p70)), and King Inwë heard ‘the lament of the world’ ([p. 5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p5)).

It is convenient to reproduce here a map ([p. 83]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83)), which actually appears in the text of a later tale (that of <I>The Theft of Melko and the Darkening of Valinor</I>). This map, drawn on a manuscript page with the text written round it, is no more than a quick scribble, in soft pencil, now rubbed and faded, and in many features difficult or impossible to interpret. The redrawing is as accurate as I can make it, the only feature lost being some indecipherable letters (beginning with M) preceding the word <I>Ice</I>. I have added the letters <I>a, b, c</I>, etc. to make the discussion easier to follow.

Utumna (later Utumno) is placed in the extreme North, north of the lamp-pillar Ringil; the position of the southern pillar seems from this map to have been still undecided. The square marked <I>a</I> is obviously Valmar, and I take the two dots marked <I>b</I> to be the Two Trees, which are stated later to have been to the north of the city of the Gods. The dot marked <I>c</I> is fairly clearly the domain of Mandos (cf. [p. 77]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p77), where it is said that Vefántur Mandos and Fui Nienna begged Aulë to delve them a hall ‘beneath the roots of the most cold and northerly of the Mountains of Valinor’);\* the dot to the south of this can hardly represent the hall of Makar and Meássë,

<BR>
\* In <I>The Silmarillion</I> ([p. 28]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p28)) the halls of Mandos stood ‘westward in Valinor’. The final text of the <I>Valaquenta</I> actually has ‘northward’, but I changed this to ‘westward’ in the published work (and similarly ‘north’ to ‘west’ on [p. 52]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p52)) on the basis of the statement in the same passage that Nienna's halls are ‘west of West, upon the borders of the world’, but are near to those of Mandos. In other passages it is clear that Mandos’ halls were conceived as standing on the shores of the Outer Sea; cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 186: ‘For the spirit of Beren at her bidding tarried in the halls of Mandos, until Lúthien came to say her last farewell upon the dim shores of the Outer Sea, whence Men that die set out never to return’. The conceptions of ‘northward in Valinor’ and ‘on the shores of the Outer Sea’ are not however contradictory, and I regret this piece of unwarranted editorial meddling.

