---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P86.
date: 1983-01-01 01:26
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 86
characters: 
tags: ['Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Harmalin', 'Ilwë', 'Kalormë', 'Moon, The', 'Ónen', 'Ossë', 'Outer Ocean', 'Shadowy Seas', 'Ship of the World', 'Sun, The', 'Talkamarda', 'Tol Eressëa']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
little circles on the map (marked <I>k</I>) are evidently a schematic representation of these archipelagoes (of the Magic Isles more will be told later). The Shadowy Seas, as will emerge more clearly later, were a region of the Great Sea west of Tol Eressëa. The other letters on the map refer to features that have not yet entered the narrative.
</p>

In this tale we meet the important cosmological idea of the Three Airs, Vaitya, Ilwë, and Vilna, and of the Outer Ocean, tideless, cold, and ‘thin’. It has been said in <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> ([p. 56]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p56)) that Ulmo dwells in the Outer Ocean and that he gave to Ossë and Ónen ‘control of the waves and lesser seas'; he is there called ‘the ancient one of Vai’ (emended from Ulmonan). It is now seen that <I>Ulmonan</I> is the name of his halls in the Outer Ocean, and also that the ‘lesser seas' controlled by Ossë and Ónen include the Great Sea ([p. 67]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p67)).

There exists a very early and very remarkable drawing, in which the world is seen in section, and is presented as a huge ‘Viking’ ship, with mast arising from the highest point of the Great Lands, single sail on which are the Sun and Moon, sailropes fastened to Taniquetil and to a great mountain in the extreme East, and curved prow (the black marks on the sail are an ink-blot). This drawing was done fairly rapidly in soft pencil on a small sheet; and it is closely associated with the cosmology of the <I>Lost Tales</I>.

I give here a list of the names and words written on the drawing with, so far as possible, their meanings (but without any etymological detail, for which see the Appendix on Names, where names and words occurring only on this drawing are given separate entries).

<I>I Vene Kemen</I> This is clearly the title of the drawing; it might mean “The Shape of the Earth’ or ‘The Vessel of the Earth’ (see the Appendix on Names, entry <I>Glorvent</I>).

<I>Nūme   </I> ‘West’.

<I>Valinor; Taniquetil</I> (The vast height of Taniquetil, even granting the formalisation of this drawing, is noteworthy: it is described in the tale as being so high that ‘the throngs about westward havens in the lands of Men could be seen therefrom’ ([p. 68]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68)). Its fantastic height is conveyed in my father's painting, dating from 1927-8 <I>(Pictures by J. R. R. Tolkien</I>, no. 31).)

