---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P317.
date: 1983-01-01 05:17
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 317
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 317
</p>

called <I>Bridhil</I> (and <I>Timbridhil,</I> see Ti<I>nwetárï),</I> which is<BR>cognate with Qenya <I>vard-.</I>

<B>Vê </B>QL gives <I>Vê</I> ‘name of Fantur’ under root VEHE, but without meaning ascribed or other derivatives. The form in GL is <I>Gwê,</I> changed to <I>Gwî:</I> ‘name of the hall of Bandoth, Q. <I>Vê’.</I> See Mandos, <I>Vefántur.</I>

<B>Vefántur   </B>In GL the Vala himself is called <I>Bandoth Gwê</I> (changed to <I>Bannoth Gwî), Gwefantur</I> (changed to <I>Gwi-fanthor),</I> and <I>Gwivannoth.</I>

<B>Vene Kemen  </B>See <I>Glorvent, Kémi.</I>

<B>Vilna   </B>In QL the root VILI (without meaning given) has derivatives <I>Vilna</I> (changed later to <I>Vilya)</I> ‘(lower) air’, <I>Vilmar</I> ‘dwelling of Manwë — the upper airs (but not <I>ilu)’, vilin</I> ‘airy, breezy’, <I>vílë</I> ‘gentle breeze’. The words ‘but not <I>ilu’</I> refer to the definition of <I>ilu</I> in the sense of <I>ilwë,</I> the middle air among the stars (see <I>ilwë).</I> Manwë's dwelling <I>Vilmar</I> is not named elsewhere.

The Gnomish names for the lowest air were <I>Gwilfa</I> or <I>Fâ;</I> the latter is said to be of unknown etymology. The corresponding Qenya names are given in GL as <I>Fâ</I> and <I>Favilna,</I> and these appear in QL under a root FAGA without translation, merely as equivalents of <I>Vilna.</I> Other Gnomish words are <I>gwil-</I> ‘sail, float, fly’, <I>gwilith</I> ‘breeze’, <I>gwilbrin</I> ‘butterfly’: these correspond to words in QL under a root GWILI, <I>wili-</I> ‘sail, float, fly’, <I>wilin</I> ‘bird’, <I>wilwarin</I> ‘butterfly’. Another name of Manweg as Lord of the Winds, <I>Famfir,</I> is given in GL.

<B>Voronwë   </B>See <I>Bronweg.</I>

<B>Vorotemnar   </B>For <I>voro</I> ‘ever’ see <I>Bronweg. Temnar</I> must be from root TEME ‘tie’, of which no derivative words are listed in QL.

<B>Wendelin   </B>This is not in QL, but GL gives <I>Gwendeling</I> (changed later to <I>Gwedhiling)</I> as the Gnomish name corresponding to Qenya <I>Wendelin;</I> ‘queen of the Woodland Elves, mother of Tinúviel’ (the only occurrence of the name <I>Tinúviel</I> in the dictionaries). The name must be related to Qenya <I>wen</I> ‘maid, girl’ and the Gnomish forms given under <I>Urwen.</I>

<B>Wingildi   </B>See <I>Wingilot.</I>

<B>Wingilot   </B>Under the root GWINGI/GWIGI in QL are <I>wingë</I>

