---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P290. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:50
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 290
characters: ["Fanuin", "Faskala númen", "Faskalan", "Fëanor", "Fingolma", "Finwë", "Fionwë-Úrion", "Fui", "fumellar", "Galmir", "Gar Lossion"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<B>Fanuin</B>   GL has <I>farm</I> ‘a year’. For the rejected names <I>La-thos, Lathweg</I> ([p. 251]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p251)) see <I>[Gonlath]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Gonlath)</I>.

<B>Faskala númen, Faskalan</B> Translated in the text ([p. 209]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p209)) as ‘Bath of the Setting Sun’. GL has <I>fas-</I> ‘wash', fasc ‘clean’, <I>fasca-</I> ‘splash, sprinkle’, <I>fôs</I> ‘bath’. <I>For-númen</I> see <I>[Númë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Númë)</I>.

<B>Fëanor</B>  The only evidence for the meaning of this name is given under <I>[Fionwë-Úrion]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Fionwë-Úrion)</I>.

<B>Fingolma</B>   See <I>[Nólemë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Nólemë)</I>.

<B>Finwë</B>  As a proper name this is not in the dictionaries, but GL gives a common noun <I>finweg</I> ‘craftsman, man of skill’ (with <I>fan</I> ‘clever; right hand’ and other related words); for <I>-weg</I> see <I>Bronweg</I>. In QL derivatives of root FINI are <I>finwa</I> ‘sagacious’, <I>finië, findë</I> ‘cunning’. See <I>Nólemë</I>.

<B>Fionwë-Úrion</B> <I>Fion</I> ‘son’ is given separately in QL (a hurried later addition), with the note ‘especially Fion(wë) the Vala’. In Gnomish he is <I>‘Auros Fionweg</I>, or <I>Fionaur Fionor’</I>. In a later entry in GL <I>‘Fionaur (Fionor)=Q. Fëanor</I> (goblet-smith)’, and among the original entries <I>is fion</I> ‘bowl, goblet’. There is no indication that this refers to Fëanor the Gnome.

For the second element <I>(Úrion, Auros)</I> see <I>Ûr</I>. In the Valar name-list Fionwë is called <I>Kalmo;</I> see <I>[Galmir]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Galmir)</I>.

<B>Fui</B>   In QL are <I>hui</I> ‘fog, dark, murk, night’ and <I>huiva</I> ‘murky’, and also <I>‘Fui (=hui)</I> wife of Vê'. In Gnomish she is <I>Fuil</I> ‘Queen of the Dark’, and related words are <I>fui</I> ‘night’, f<I>uin</I> ‘secret, dark’.

<B>fumellar</B>   The ‘flowers of sleep’ (poppies) in Lórien's gardens ([p. 75]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p75)). QL under root FUMU ‘sleep’ has <I>fúmë</I> ‘sleep’ (noun), <I>fúmella, fúmellot</I> ‘poppy’.

<B>Galmir</B>   Translated in the text ([p. 209]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p209)) as ‘the goldgleamer’ (a name of the Sun). This is a derivative of Gnomish <I>gal-</I> ‘shine’, which in Qenya is KALA ‘shine golden’, and of which a great many derivatives are given in QL, as <I>kala-</I> ‘shine’, <I>kálë</I> ‘morning’, <I>kalma</I> ‘daylight’, <I>Ka-lainis</I> ‘May’ <I>(see Erinti), kalwa</I> ‘beautiful’, etc. Cf. <I>Ka-lormë, Kalaventë</I>, and <I>i-kal'antúlien</I> ‘Light hath returned’ ([p. 184]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p184)).

<B>Gar Lossion</B>   Translated in the text ([p. 5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p5)) as ‘Place of

