---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P286.
date: 1983-01-01 04:46
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 286
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
286      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

<B>Bráglorin  </B>Defined in the text (p. 209) as ‘the blazing vessel’, but translated in GL as ‘Golden Wain, a name of the Sun’, with a note: ‘also in analytical form <I>i-Vreda ‘Loriol’; brada </I>‘waggon, wain’. For <I>-glorin </I>see <I>Lau-relin.</I>

<B>Bronweg   </B>GL has <I>Bronweg </I>‘(the constant one), name of a famous Gnome’, with related words as <I>brod, bronn </I>‘steadfast’, <I>bronweth </I>‘constancy’. In QL <I>Voronwë </I>(see p. 44) ‘the faithful’ is derived from the root VORO, with <I>vor, voro </I>‘ever’, <I>voronda </I>‘faithful’, <I>vorima </I>‘everlasting’, etc. Cf. <I>Vorotemnar.</I>

The common ending <I>-weg </I>is not given in GL, but cf. <I>gweg </I>‘man’, plural <I>gwaith.</I>

<B>Cûm a Gumlaith </B>‘The Mound of the First Sorrow’, tomb of Bruithwir, p. 165. GL <I>cûm </I>‘mound, especially burial-mound’ (also <I>cum- </I>‘lie’, <I>cumli </I>‘couch’); <I>gumlaith </I>‘weariness of spirit, grief <I>(blaith </I>‘spirit’).

<B>Cûm a Thegranaithos </B>See preceding entry. GL <I>thegra </I>‘first, foremost’, <I>thegor </I>‘chief; <I>naitha- </I>‘lament, weep, wail for’, <I>naithol </I>‘miserable’.

<B>Danuin   </B>GL has <I>dana </I>‘day (24 hours)’, with reference to Qenya <I>sana </I>(not in QL); <I>Dana </I>was an earlier reading for <I>Danuin </I>(p. 251). The same element appears in <I>Lo-mendánar </I>‘Days of Gloaming’.

<B>Dor Faidwen </B>Gnomish <I>dôr </I>(< <I>ndor-) </I>‘(inhabited) land, country, people of the land’; see <I>Valinor.</I>

<I>Dor Faidwen </I>is translated in the text ‘Land of Release’ (p. 1); GL has <I>faidwen </I>‘freedom’ and many related words, <I>as fair ‘free’, faith </I>‘liberty’, etc. In QL under root FAYA appear <I>fairë </I>‘free’, <I>fairië </I>‘freedom’, <I>fainu-</I>’ release’.

<I>Dor Faidwen </I>was the final Gnomish name of Tol Eressëa after many changes (p. 11), but little light can be cast on the earlier forms. <I>Gar </I>in <I>Gar Eglos </I>is a Gnomish word meaning ‘place, district’. <I>Dor Us(g)wen: </I>GL gives the stem <I>us- </I>‘leave, depart’ (also <I>uthwen </I>‘way out, exit’), and QL under root usu ‘escape’ has <I>uswë </I>‘issue, escape’ and <I>usin </I>‘he escapes'.

<B>Dor Lómin  </B>See <I>Valinor, Hisilómë.</I>

