---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P249.
date: 1983-01-01 04:09
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 249
characters: 
tags: ['Ailios', 'Carpenter, Humphrey', 'Children of the World', 'the Tale of Earendel', 'Happy Mariners, The', 'Great Lands', 'Helkaraksë', 'Kalaventë', 'Kalavénë', 'Lórien', 'Magic Isles', 'Men', 'Mountains of Valinor']
description: 
published: true
---

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p238) In the draft text the account of the Hiding of Valinor is very brief, and moves on quickly to the Path of Dreams. The webs of darkness laid on the eastward slopes of the mountains were not those ‘sloughed in Valinor’ by Ungweliantë, but are merely compared to ‘the most clinging that ever Ungweliantë wove’. Helkaraksë and the Magic Isles are only mentioned in a marginal direction that they are to be included.

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p238) ‘Earth’ is again used in the sense of the Great Lands (see [note 4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p248)). The draft has here ‘Children of the World’.

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p240) While there are no differences of any substance in the account of the Olórë Mallë in the two texts, in the first there is no mention of Oromë's Path of the Rainbow. — An isolated note, obviously written before the present Tale, says: ‘When the Gods close Valinor . . . Lórien leaves a path across the mountains called Olórë Mallë, and Manwë the Rainbow where he walks to survey the world. It is only visible after rain, for then it is wet. ’

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p240) ‘truce’: earlier reading ‘compromise’. It is notable how Manwë is portrayed as <I>primus inter pares</I> rather than as ruler over the other Valar.

[11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p240) On the Trees of Kôr see pp. [132]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p132), [148]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p148).

[12]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p241) See [pp. 224-5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p224).

[13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p242) <I>Sári</I> is here (and subsequently) the name as written, not an emendation from <I>Kalavénë</I>, the name in the draft texts of <I>The Sun and Moon</I> and <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> (see [p. 222]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p222)). The reading of the draft in this place is ‘the Sunship’, itself an alteration from ‘the ships', for my father first wrote that neither ship could safely be drawn beneath the Earth.

[14]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p243) The Sleeper in the Tower of Pearl is named in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I>, [p. 4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p4). The song of the sleeper is virtually certainly the poem <I>The Happy Mariners</I>, originally written in 1915 and published in 1923 (see Humphrey Carpenter, <I>Biography</I>, Appendix C, p. 269); this will be given in two versions in connection with the materials for the <I>Tale of Earendel</I> in the second part of the <I>Lost Tales</I>. The poem contains a reference to the boats that pass the Tower of Pearl, piled ‘with hoarded sparks of orient fire / that divers won in waters of the unknown Sun’.

[15]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p243) The original draft has here: ‘but that is the tale of Qorinómi and I dare not tell it here, for friend Ailios is watching me’ (see [pp. 220-1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p220), notes 19 and 20).

[16]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p244) The draft text had here at first: ‘and the galleon of the Sun goes out into the dark, and coming behind the world finds

