---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P281. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:41
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 281
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

Roots are in capitals, and are not words in use at all, but serve as an elucidation of the words grouped together and a connection between them.

There is a good deal of uncertainty, expressed by queries, in the formulation of the roots, and in the ascription of words to one root or another, as my father moved among different etymological ideas; and in some cases it seems clear that the word was ‘there’, so to speak, but its etymology remained to be certainly defined, and not vice versa. The roots themselves are often difficult to represent, since certain consonants carry diacritic marks that are not defined. The notes on names that follow inevitably give a slightly more positive impression than does the book itself.

The other book is a dictionary of the Gnomish language, <I>Goldogrin</I>, and I shall refer to this as 'GL' (Goldogrin, or Gnomish, Lexicon). This is not arranged historically, by roots (though occasionally roots are given), but rather, in plan at least, as a conventional dictionary; and it contains a remarkable number of words. The book is entitled <I>i-Lam na-Ngoldathon</I> (i.e. ‘the tongue of the Gnomes'): <I>Goldogrin</I>, with a date: 1917. Written beneath the title is <I>Eriol Sarathron</I> (i.e. ‘Eriol the Voyager’) <I>who else is called Angol but in his own folk Ottor Wǽfre</I> (see [p. 13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p13)).\*

The great difficulty in this case is the intensity with which my father used this diminutive book, emending, rejecting, adding, in layer upon layer, so that in places it has become very hard to interpret. Moreover later changes to the forms in one entry were not necessarily made in related entries; thus the stages of a rapidly expanding linguistic conception are very confused in their representation. These little books were working materials, by no means the setting-out of finished ideas (it is indeed quite clear that GL in particular closely accompanied the actual composition of the <I>Tales)</I>. Further, the languages changed even while the first ‘layer’ was being entered in GL; for example, the word <I>mô</I> ‘sheep’ was changed later to <I>moth</I>, but later in the dictionary <I>uimoth</I> ‘sheep of the waves' was the form first written.

<BR>
\* The note concerning <I>Angol</I> and <I>Eriollo</I> referred to on [p. 14]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p14) is written inside the cover of GL.

