---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P320.
date: 1983-01-01 05:20
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 320
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
320      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

<B>jacinth   </B>blue, 27

<B>lampads </B>29. The word is only recorded in the O. E. D. (first used by Coleridge) of the seven lamps of fire burning before the throne of God in the Book of Revelation, iv.5.

<B>lets upon   </B>gives on to, opens on to, 237

<B>lief   </B>gladly, willingly, 181; <B>liever </B>more gladly, more willingly, rather, 112, 181

<B>lustihead   </B>vigour, 105

<B>meed   </B>requital, 112

<B>minished   </B>reduced, diminished, 165, 235

or ... or   either ... or, 137, 241

<B>or yet   </B>apparently means ‘already’, 185

<B>ousel   </B>blackbird, 43 (now spelt <I>ouzel, </I>in <I>Ring-ouzel </I>and other bird-names).

<B>pleasance   </B>‘A pleasure-ground, usually attached to a mansion; sometimes a secluded part of a garden, but more often a separate enclosure laid out with shady walks, trees and shrubs . . .’ (O.E.D.) This sense is present in <I>pleasa(u)nces </I>75, 125, but in <I>rest and pleasance </I>69 the sense is ‘enjoyment, pleasure’; in <I>nor did he have lack of pleasance </I>64 either meaning may be intended, but I think probably the former.

<B>pled   </B>old past tense <I>of plead, </I>186

<B>plenilune   </B>the time of full moon, 231 (see <I>Letters </I>p. 310).

<B>pricks   </B>(spurs his horse), rides fast, 122. <I>Oromë pricks over the plain </I>echoes the first line of <I>The Faerie Queene, A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plaine.</I>

<B>recked   </B>troubled, cared, 200

<B>rede   </B>counsel, advice, 156, 203, 245; plan, 201; <B>redes </B>counsels, 126

<B>rondured    </B>(in <B>golden-rondured) </B>28. <I>Rondure </I>‘circle, rounded form’; <I>rondured </I>is not recorded.

<B>ruth   </B>matter of sorrow, calamity, 207; distress, grief, 214; remorse, 217; in <I>the greatest ruth was that to [the Valar] thereafter </I>235 the sense is unclear: ‘matter of sorrow or regret’, or possibly ‘harm, ill’.

saps   deep diggings, 111

<B>sate   </B>old past tense of <I>sit, </I>56, 112, 169, 203, 213, 217

<B>seamews   </B>seagulls, 133

selenites   inhabitants of the Moon, 231

<B>shallop   </B>215. This word had precise applications to partic-

