---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P256.
date: 1983-01-01 04:16
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 256
characters: 
tags: ['Ambarkanta', 'Door of Night', 'Eastern shore(s)', 'Gates of Morn', 'Great Lands', 'Ilúvatar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
curious collective isolation and indifference to the world beyond their mountains that is so much emphasized in this tale. However this may be, Ulmo at this time informed the Valar that the whole world is an Ocean, Vai, on which the Earth floats, ‘upheld by the word of Ilúvatar’; and all the seas of the Earth, even that which divides Valinor from the Great Lands, are hollows in the Earth's surface, and are thus distinct from Vai, which is of another nature. All this we have already seen (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p87">pp. 87</a> ff.); and in an earlier tale something has been said (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68">p. 68</a>) of the nature of the upholding waters:
</p>

Beyond Valinor I have never seen or heard, save that of a surety there are the dark waters of the Outer Seas, that have no tides, and they are very cool and thin, that no boat can sail upon their bosom or fish swim within their depths, save the enchanted fish of Ulmo and his magic car.

So here Ulmo says that neither fish nor boat will swim in its waters ‘to whom I have not spoken the great word that Ilúvatar said to me and bound them with the spell’.

At the outer edge of Vai stands the Wall of Things, which is described as ‘deep-blue’ ([p. 243]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p243)). Valinor is nearer to the Wall of Things than is the eastern shore of the Great Lands, which must mean that Vai is narrower in the West than in the East. In the Wall of Things the Gods at this time made two entrances, in the West the Door of Night and in the East the Gates of Morn; and what lies beyond these entrances in the Wall is called ‘the starless vast’ and ‘the outer dark’. It is not made clear how the outer air (‘the dark and tenuous realm of Vaitya that is outside all’, [p. 203]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p203)) is to be related to the conception of the Wall of Things or the Outer Dark. In the rejected preliminary text of this tale my father wrote at first (see note 16 above) that in the East ‘the Wall of Things is lower’, so that when the Sun returns from the Outer Dark it does not enter the eastern sky by a door but ‘rides above’ the Wall. This was then changed, and the idea of the Door in the Eastern Wall, the Gates of Morn, introduced; but the implication seems clear that the Walls were originally conceived like the walls of terrestrial cities, or gardens — walls with a top: a ‘ring-fence’. In the cosmological essay of the 1930s, the <I>Ambarkanta</I>, the Walls are quite other:

