---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P48.
date: 1983-01-01 00:48
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 48
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
which afterwards caused the division. Here, Rúmil ascribes it to ‘the long wandering of the Noldoli about the Earth and the black ages of their thraldom while their kin dwelt yet in Valinor’ — in later terms, ‘the Exile of the Noldor’. In <I>The Silmarillion </I>(see especially pp. 113, 129) the Noldor brought the Valinórean tongue to Middle-earth but abandoned it (save among themselves), and adopted instead the language of Be-leriand, <I>Sindarin </I>of the Grey-elves, who had never been to Valinor: Quenya and Sindarin were of common origin, but their ‘deep sundering’ had been brought about through vast ages of separation. In the <I>Lost Tales, </I>on the other hand, the Noldor still brought the Elvish speech of Valinor to the Great Lands, but they retained it, and there it itself changed and became wholly different. In other words, in the original conception the ‘second tongue’ only split off from the parent speech through the departure of the Gnomes from Valinor into the Great Lands; whereas afterwards the ‘second tongue’ separated from the ‘first tongue’ near the very beginning of Elvish existence in the world. Nonetheless, Gnomish <I>is </I>Sindarin, in the sense that Gnomish is <I>the actual language </I>that ultimately, as the whole conception evolved, became that of the Grey-elves of Beleriand.
</p>

With Rúmil's remarks about the secret tongue which the Valar use and in which the Eldar once wrote poetry and books of wisdom, but few of them now know it, cf. the following note found in the little <I>Lost Tales </I>pocket-book referred to on [p. 13](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p13):

The Gods understood the language of the Elves but used it not among themselves. The wiser of the Elves learned much of the speech of the Gods and long treasured that knowledge among both Teleri and Noldoli, but by the time of the coming to Tol Eressëa none knew it save the Inwir, and now that knowledge is dead save in Meril's house.

Some new persons appear in this passage. Ómar the Vala ‘who knows all tongues' did not survive the <I>Lost Tales; </I>a little more is heard of him subsequently, but he is a divinity without much substance. Tuor and Bronweg appear from the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin, </I>which was already written; <I>Bronweg </I>is the Gnomish form of <I>Voronwë, </I>that same

