---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P11.
date: 1983-01-01 00:11
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 11
characters: 
tags: ["Name change", 'Dor Edloth, Dor Us(g)wen', 'Dor Faidwen', 'Gar Lossion', 'Gim-Githil', 'Githil', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Goldriel', 'Golthadriel', 'Gar Eglos', 'Gnomes', 'Great Lands', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Ing', 'Ingil', 'Ingilmo', 'Inwë', 'Inwithiel', 'Koromas', 'Kormas', 'Losgar']
description: 
published: true
---

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p7) The original reading was ‘before the days of´, changed to ‘in<BR>the first days of, and then to the reading given.

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p9) This last phrase was an addition to the second MS.

<br>
Changes made to names in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I>

The names were at this time in a very fluid state, reflecting in part the rapid development of the languages that was then taking place. Changes were made to the original text, and further changes, at different times, to the second text, but it seems unnecessary in the following notes to go into the detail of when and where the changes were made. The names are given in the order of their occurrence in the tale. The signs > and < are used to mean ‘changed to’ and ‘changed from’.

<I>Dor Faidwen</I> The Gnomish name of Tol Eressëa was changed many times: <I>Gar Eglos > Dor Edloth > Dor Usgwen > Dor Uswen > Dor Faidwen</I>.

<I>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva</I> In the original text a space was left for the Elvish name, subsequently filled in as <I>Mar Vanwa Tal-iéva</I>.

<I>Great Lands</I> Throughout the tale <I>Great Lands</I> is an emendation of <I>Outer Lands</I>, when the latter was given a different meaning (lands West of the Great Sea).

<I>Wingilot    < Wingelot</I>.

<I>Gar Lossion    < Losgar</I>.

<I>Karomas   </I> < <I>Kormas</I>.

<I>Meril-i-Turinqi  </I> The first text has only <I>Turinqi</I>, with in one place a space left for a personal name.

<I>Inwë  < Ing</I> at each occurrence.

<I>Inwithiel   </I> < <I>Gim Githil</I>, which was in turn <I>< Githil</I>.

<I>Ingil   </I> < <I>Ingilmo</I>.

<I>Valwë  < Manwë</I>. It seems possible that <I>Manwë</I> as the name of Vairë's father was a mere slip.

<I>Noldorin   </I> The original reading was <I>Noldorin whom the Gnomes name Goldriel; Goldriel</I> was changed to <I>Golthadriel</I>, and then the reference to the Gnomish name was struck out, leaving only <I>Noldorin</I>.

<I>Tulkastor    < Tulkassë < Turenbor</I>.

<I>Solosimpi    < Solosimpë</I> at each occurrence.

