---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P85.
date: 1983-01-01 01:25
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 85
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
since it is said (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p79">p. 79</a>) that though it was not very far from Mandos it stood ‘upon the confines of the Outer Lands'.
</p>

The area which I have marked <I>h</I> is Eruman / Arvalin (which ultimately came to be named Avathar), earlier <I>Habbanan I Harmalin (Harwalin)</I>, which are simple alternatives (see [p. 80]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p80)).

Later, in a map of the world made in the 1930s, the western shore of the Great Sea bends in a gentle and regular curve westward from north to south, while the Mountains of Valinor bend in virtually the reverse of the same curve eastward, ) (; where the two curves come together at their midpoints are Túna, and Taniquetil. Two areas of land in the shape of elongated Vs thus extend northward and southward from the midpoint, between the Mountains and the Sea, which draw steadily away from each other; and these are named Eruman (to the northward) and Arvalin (to the southward).

In the little primitive map the line of the mountains is already thus, and it is described in the text as ‘a great ring curving westward’ (the curve is westward if the extremities are considered rather than the central portion). But the curve of the coast is different. Unhappily the little map is here very obscure, for there are several lines (marked <I>j</I>) extending northwards from Kôr (marked <I>d)</I>, and it is impossible to make out whether marks on them are directions for erasure or whether they represent parallel mountain-chains. But I think that in fact these lines merely represent variant ideas for the curve of the Mountains of Valinor in the north; and I have little doubt that at this time my father had no conception of a region of ‘waste’ north of Kôr and east of the mountains. This interpretation of the map agrees well with what is said in the tale ([p. 68]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68)): ‘the Shadowy Seas to north of Eruman bend a vast bay inwards, so that waves beat even upon the feet of the great cliffs, and the Mountains stand beside the sea’, and ‘Taniquetil looks from the bay's head southward across Eruman and northward across the Bay of Faëry’. On this view the name <I>Eruman</I> (later <I>Amman)</I>, at first an alternative to <I>Arvalin</I>, was taken over for the northern waste when the plan of the coastal regions became more symmetrical.

It is said in the tale ([p. 68]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68)) that ‘in that vast water of the West are many smaller lands and isles, ere the lonely seas are found whose waves whisper about the Magic Isles'. The

