---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P273.
date: 1983-01-01 04:33
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 273
characters: 
tags: ['Angband', 'Artanor', 'Beren', 'Doriath', 'Dor Lómin', 'Egnor', 'Elfinesse', 'Ermon', 'Fëanor', 'Feast of Reunion', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Sons of Fëanor', 'Oath of Fëanor']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The first acquisition of weapons by the Eldar remained a point of uncertainty for a long time.)
</p>

The Gnomes now fought for the first time with the Orcs and captured the pass of the Bitter Hills; thus they escaped out of the Land of Shadows, to Melko's fear and amazement. They entered the Forest of Artanor (later Doriath) and the Region of the Great Plains (perhaps the forerunner of the later Talath Dirnen, the Guarded Plain of Nargothrond); and the host of Nólemë grew to a vast size. They practised many arts, but would dwell no longer in settled abodes. The chief camp of Nólemë was about the waters of Sirion; and the Gnomes drove the Orcs to the foothills of the Iron Mountains. Melko gathered his power in secret wrath.

Turgon was born to Nólemë.

Maidros, ‘chief son of Fëanor’, led a host against Ang-band, but was driven back with fire from its gates, and he was taken alive and tortured — according to C, repeating the story of the earlier outline, because he would not reveal the secret arts of jewel-making. (It is not said here that Maidros was freed and returned, but it is implied in the Oath of the Seven Sons that follows.)

The Seven Sons of Fëanor swore their terrible oath of hatred for ever against all, Gods or Elves or Men, who should hold the Silmarils; and the Children of Fëanor left the host of Nólemë and went back into Dor Lómin, where they became a mighty and a fierce race.

The hosts of Tareg the Ilkorin (see [p. 269]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p269)) found the Gnomes at the Feast of Reunion; and the Men of Ermon first saw the Gnomes. Then Nólemë's host, swollen by that of Tareg and by the sons of Ermon, prepared for battle; and messengers were sent out North, South, East, and West. Tin-welint alone refused the summons, and he said: ‘Go not into the hills.’ Úrin and Egnor\* marched with countless battalions.

Melko withdrew all his forces and Nólemë believed that he was afraid. The hosts of Elfinesse drew into the Tumbled Lands and encamped in the Vale of Fountains (Gorfalong), or as it was afterwards called the Valley of Weeping Waters.

(The outline D differs in its account of the events before

<BR>
\* The father of Beren.

