---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P289. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:49
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 289
characters: ["Falassë Númëa", "Falman", "Falmaríni", "Fanturi"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
as <I>Erumari)</I> appears in QL under ERE ‘out’ (cf. <I>Neni Erúmëar)</I> without further information. GL has a long entry under <I>Edhofon</I>, which=Q. <I>Erumáni:</I> it is a ‘dark land outside Valinor and to the south of the Bay of Faery, that ran right up to the bases of the western side of the Mountains of Valinor; its farthest northern point touched upon the roots of Taniquetil, hence <I>Edhofon < Eðusmānī-</I>, i.e. beyond the abode of the Mánir. Hence also the Q. title <I>Afalinan or Arvalion</I>, i.e. nigh Valinor. ’ The implication of this seems to be that Taniquetil was ‘the abode of the Mánir’, as is comprehensible, since the Mánir were particularly associated with Manwë (the Gnomish words <I>móna, móni</I> are defined as ‘spirits of the air, children of Manwë’), and therefore Eruman was beyond (south of) their abode. See <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Mánir">Mánir</a></I>.
</p>

GL also states that Edhofon was called <I>Garioth;</I> and <I>Garioth</I> is ‘the true Gnome form’ of the name <I>Aryador</I> (a word of Ilkorin origin) ‘land of shadow’, though applied not to Hisilómë but to Edhofon / Eruman.

According to QL <I>Harwalin</I> ‘near the Valar’ contains <I>har(e)</I> ‘near’; the entries in GL are too confusing to cite, for the forms of <I>Harwalin / Arvalin</I> were changed over and over again. A late entry in GL gives a prefix <I>ar-</I>‘beside, along with’. For <I>Habbanan</I> see <I>Valar</I>.

<B>Falassë Númëa</B> Translated in the text ([p. 134]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p134)) as ‘Western Surf’; see <I>[Falman]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Falman), [Númë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Númë)</I>.

<B>Falman</B>   In QL the root FALA has derivatives <I>falma</I> ‘foam’, <I>falmar</I> ‘wave as it breaks<I>’, falas(s)</I> ‘shore, beach’, <I>Fal-man</I>=Ossë; cf. <I>Falassë Númea, Falmaríni. GL has falm</I> ‘breaker, <I>wave’, falos</I> ‘sea-marge, surf’, <I>Falmon</I> or <I>Fa-lathron</I> ‘names of Otha [Ossë], = Q. <I>Falman</I> and <I>Fa-lassar’</I>.

<B>Falmaríni</B>  See <I>[Falman]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Falman)</I>.

<B>Fanturi</B>   In <I>QL fantur</I>, without translation but with reference to Lórien and Mandos, is given under root FANA, with several derivatives all referring to visions, dreams, falling asleep. In GL (a late entry) the form is <I>Fanthor</I>, plural <I>i-Fanthaurin</I> ‘the name of each of the two brothers, of sleep, of death’.

