---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P295. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:55
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 295
characters: ["Kaukareldar", "Kelusindi", "Kémi", "Koivië-néni", "Kópas", "Kôr", "korin"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
‘spring of water’ among derivatives of root KAPA ‘leap, spring’; <I>linda</I> is obscure.
</p>

<B>Kaukareldar</B>   Under the root KAWA ‘stoop’ in QL are derivations <I>kauka</I> ‘crooked, bent, humped’, <I>kauko</I> ‘humpback’, <I>kawin</I> ‘I bow’, <I>kaurë</I> ‘fear’, <I>kaurëa</I> ‘timid’.

<B>Kelusindi</B>   (The river in the place of the banishment of the Noldoli in Valinor, [p. 173]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p173); in the text called <I>Sirnúmen.</I>) In QL under root KELE, KELU ‘flow, trickle, ooze’ are given many derivatives including <I>kelusindi</I> ‘a river’, also <I>kelu, kelumë</I> ‘stream’, <I>kektelë</I> ‘fountain’ (also in the form <I>ektelë)</I>, etc. For <I>-sindi</I> see <I>[Sirion]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sirion</I>).

<B>Kémi</B>  QL gives <I>kemi</I> ‘earth, soil, land’ and <I>kemen</I> ‘soil’, from root KEME. The Gnomish name is <I>Címir</I>, which=Q. <I>Kémi</I> ‘Mother Earth’. There is also a Gnomish word <I>grosgen</I> ‘soil’ in which <I>-gen</I> is said to=Q. <I>kémi</I>.

<B>Koivië-néni</B>  ‘Waters of Awakening. ’ In QL under root KOYO ‘have life’ are derivatives <I>koi, koirë</I> ‘life’, <I>koitë</I> ‘living being’, <I>koina, koirëa</I> ‘alive’, <I>koiva</I> ‘awake’, <I>kovië</I> ‘awakening’. In GL are <I>cuil</I> ‘life’, <I>cuith</I> ‘life, living body’, etc.; <I>cwiv-</I> ‘be awake’, <I>cwivra-</I> ‘awaken’, <I>cui-vros</I> ‘awakening’: <I>Nenin a Gwivros</I> ‘Waters of Awakening’. For <I>-néni, Nenin</I> see <I>[Neni Erúmëar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Neni%20Erúmëar</I>).

<B>Kópas</B>  QL has <I>kópa</I> ‘harbour’, the only word given under root KOPO ‘keep, guard’. GL has <I>gobos</I> ‘haven’, with a reference to Q. <I>kópa, kópas;</I> also <I>gob</I> ‘hollow of hand’, <I>gobli</I> ‘dell’.

<B>Kôr</B>   In QL this name is given under the root KORO ‘revere?’, with the note ‘the ancient town built above the rocks of Eldamar, whence the fairies marched into the world’; also placed here are <I>korda</I> ‘temple’, <I>kordon</I> ‘idol’. The Gnomish form is here given as <I>Côr</I>, but in GL <I>Côr</I> (‘the hill of the fairies and the town thereon near the shores of the Bay of Faery’) was replaced by <I>Gwâr, Goros</I> '=Q. <I>Kôr</I> the town on the round hill’. This interpretation of the name <I>Kôr</I> clearly replaces that in QL, which belongs with the earliest layer of entries. See further under <I>[korin]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#korin</I>).

<B>korin</B>   See <I>[Kôr]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Kôr</I>). In QL there is a second root KORO (i.e. distinct from that which gave <I>Kôr);</I> this has the meaning ‘be round, roll’, and has such derivatives as <I>korima</I> ‘round’, <I>kornë</I> ‘loaf, also <I>korin ’</I> a circular enclosure,

