---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P294.
date: 1983-01-01 04:54
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 294
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
294      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

name of Gilweth after he rose into the heavens and ‘in the likeness of a great bee bearing honey of flame followed Daimord [Telimektar, Orion]’; see entries <I>Niel-luin, Telimektar.</I> No explanation of these names is given, but <I>Gil(weth)</I> is clearly connected with <I>gil-</I>‘gleam’, <I>gilm</I> ‘moonlight’, <I>giltha</I> ‘white metal’ (see Il<I>-saluntë).</I> For <I>Githilma</I> see Isil.

<B>Inwë </B>In QL this, the name of ‘the ancient king of the fairies who led them to the world’, is a derivative of a root INI ‘small’, whence also the adjective <I>inya</I> and the names <I>Inwilis, Inwinórë</I> ‘Faëry’ and ‘England’ (the latter struck out). Tol Eressëa was here said to have been named <I>Inwinórë</I> after Inwë, but this was changed to say that it was named <I>Ingilnórë</I> after his son Ingil. These entries relate to a very early conception (see <I>Alalminórë, El-damar).</I> For other names of Inwë see <I>Inwithiel, Ml.</I>

<B>Inwir   </B>See <I>Inwë.</I> In GL the ‘noble clan of the Tilthin’ (Tel-eri) are called <I>Imrim,</I> singular <I>Im</I> (see <I>Inwithiel).</I>

<B>Inwithiel   </B>In the texts <I>Inwithiel,</I> Gnomish name of King Inwë, is an emendation from <I>(Gim)Githil</I> (pp. 11, 141). In GL these names <I>Inwithiel, Githil</I> are given as additional to his proper names <I>Inweg</I> or <I>Im.</I> See <I>Ml.</I>

<B>Isil   </B>In the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> (p. 124) Inwë is called <I>Isil Inwë,</I> and in GL the Gnomish form corresponding to <I>Isil</I> is <I>Githil</I> (to the name of his son <I>Githilma</I> corresponds Qenya <I>Isilmo).</I> In QL is a root isi <I>(iska</I> ‘pale’, is ‘light snow’), of which the Gnomish equivalent is given as <I>ith-</I> or <I>gith-;</I> GL has a word <I>ith</I> ‘fine snow’.

<B>Kalaventë  </B>See <I>Galmir, Glorvent.</I>

<B>Kalormë </B>This appears in QL among the derivatives of root KALA (see <I>Galmir),</I> with the meaning ‘hill-crest over which the Sun rises', <I>ormë—</I>‘summit, crest’, from a root ORO with apparently a base sense of ‘rise’: <I>or</I> 'on', <I>oro</I> ‘hill’, <I>oro-</I> ‘rise’, <I>orto-</I> ‘raise’, <I>oronta</I> ‘steep’, <I>orosta</I> ‘ascension’, etc.; Gnomish <I>or</I> ‘on, onto, on top’, <I>orod, on</I> ‘mountain’, o<I>rm</I> ‘hill-top’, <I>oros, orost-</I> ‘rising’. Cf. <I>Oromë, Orossi, Tavrobel.</I>

<B>Kapalinda   </B>(The source of the river in the place of the banishment of the Noldoli in Valinor, p. 173.) QL has <I>ka-</I>

