---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P314. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:14
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 314
characters: ['Ulmonan', 'Ungoliont', 'Ungwë Lianti', 'Ungweliant(ë)', 'Uolë Kúvion', 'Ûr', 'Urwen', 'Urwendi']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
fast’, together with <I>ulu-</I> and <I>ulto-</I> ‘pour’, in transitive and intransitive senses. His name in Gnomish is <I>Gulma</I>, with corresponding verbs <I>gul-</I> and <I>gulta-</I>. In the draft text of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> he is also called <I>Linqil:</I> see <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Nielíqui">Nielíqui</a></I>. For other names see <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Vailimo">Vailimo</a></I>.
</p>

<B>Ulmonan</B>   See <I>[Ulmo]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ulmo)</I>; the second element of this name is not explained.

<B>Ungoliont</B>   See <I>[Ungwë Lianti]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ungwë%20Lianti)</I>.

<B>Ungwë Lianti, Ungweliant(ë)</B> Under a queried root GUNGU QL gives <I>ungwë</I> ‘spider, especially <I>Ungwë</I> the Gloom-weaver, usually <I>Ungwelianti’</I>. The second element is from root LI<I>'+ya</I> ‘entwine’, with derivatives <I>lia</I> ‘twine’, <I>liantë</I> ‘tendril’, <I>liantassë</I> ‘vine’. In GL the name as originally entered was <I>Gungliont</I>, as also first written in the text ([p. 172]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p172)); later this was changed to <I>‘Ungweliont</I> or <I>Ungoliont’</I>. The second element is assigned to root l<I>ī-(lind</I> ‘twine’).

<B>Uolë Kúvion</B> <I>Kúvion</I> was changed from <I>Mikúmi</I> ([p. 221]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p221)). The name is not in QL under the root KUVU ‘bend, bow’, which has derivatives <I>kû</I> ‘crescent Moon’, <I>kúnë</I> ‘crescent, bow’. GL gives <I>cû</I> ‘bow, crescent; the waxing or waning Moon’, and also <I>‘Cuvonweg: Ûl Cuvonweg (</I>=Q. <I>Ólë Kúmion)</I>, the Moonking’. Under <I>Ûl</I> the Qenya equivalent is however <I>Uolë</I>, and here it is said that the name <I>Ûl</I> is usually in the phrase <I>Ûl-a-Rinthilios;</I> while <I>Rinthilios</I> is glossed ‘the orbed Moon, name of the Moon-elf <I>(rinc</I> ‘circular’, noun ‘disc’; <I>rin-</I> ‘revolve, return’).

<B>Ûr</B>   The root URU/USU in QL has derivatives <I>uru</I> ‘fire’, <I>úrin</I> ‘blazinghot’, <I>uruvoitë</I> ‘fiery’, <I>urúva</I> ‘like fire’, <I>urwa</I> ‘on fire’, <I>Ur</I> ‘the Sun’ (with other forms <I>Ú, Úinki, Urwen), Úrion</I> ‘a name of Fionwë’, <I>urna</I> ‘oven’, <I>usta-, urya-</I>'burn' (transitive and intransitive). The Gnomish form is <I>Aur (aurost</I> ‘dawn’), and also a poetic word <I>Uril</I>. See <I>[Fionwë-Úríon]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Fionwë-Úríon), [Urwen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Urwen)</I>.

<B>Urwen, Urwendi</B> In the earlier tales in this book the form is <I>Urwen</I>, becoming <I>Urwendi</I> in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>. The original entry in GL was <I>‘Urwendi</I> and <I>Ur-win</I> (Q. <I>Urwen</I>) the maiden of the Sun-ship’, but this was later changed to read <I>‘Urwedhin</I> and <I>Urwin</I> (Q. <I>Urwendi)’</I>. In QL (see <I>[Ûr]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ûr)) Urwen</I> appears as a name of

