---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P284.
date: 1983-01-01 04:44
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 284
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
284      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

GL has Ain: ‘also with distinctive masc. and fem, forms<BR><I>Ainos </I>and <I>Ainil, </I>a God, i.e. one of the Great Valar’.

<B>Alalminórë  </B>See <I>Aldaron, Valinor. </I>In QL <I>Alalminórë </I>is glossed ‘Land of Elms, one of the provinces of Inwinórë in which is situated Kortirion (Warwickshire)’; i.e. <I>Al-alminórë=</I>Warwickshire (see p. 15). Gnomish words are <I>lalm </I>or <I>larm, </I>also <I>lalmir, </I>‘elm’.

<B>Aldaron   </B>In QL is a root ALA ‘spread’, with derivatives <I>alda </I>‘tree’; <I>aldëa </I>‘tree-shadowed’, <I>aldëon </I>‘avenue of trees', and <I>alalmë </I>‘elm’ (see <I>Alalminórë). </I>In GL this name of Oromë appears as <I>Aldor </I>and <I>Ormaldor (Oromë </I>is <I>Orma </I>in Gnomish); <I>ald </I>‘wood (material)’, later altered to âl.

<B>Alqaluntë  </B>QL <I>alqa </I>‘swan’; GL <I>alcwi, </I>with the corresponding word in Qenya here given as <I>alqë, alcwi </I>changed later to <I>alfa < alchwa.</I>

QL <I>luntë </I>‘ship’ from root LUTU, with other derivatives <I>lúto </I>‘flood’ and verb <I>lutta-, lutu- </I>‘flow, float’ (cf. I<I>lsaluntë). </I>GL has correspondingly <I>lunta </I>‘ship’, <I>lud-</I>‘flow, stream, float’.

<B>Aluin   </B>See <I>Lúmin.</I>

Amillo   This appears in QL but with no indication of meaning; <I>Amillion </I>is Amillo's month, February (one of the most ‘primitive’ entries).

Angaino   Together with <I>angayassë </I>‘misery’, <I>angaitya </I>‘torment’ , <I>Angaino </I>is given in QL separately from the ‘iron’ words (see <I>Angamandi) </I>and was first defined as ‘a giant’, emended to ‘the great chain’. In GL Melko has a name <I>Angainos, </I>with a note: ‘Do not confuse Gnomish <I>Angainos </I>with Qenya <I>Angaino </I>(Gnomish <I>Gainu), </I>the great chain <I>of tilkal.’ </I>Under <I>Gainu </I>there is a later note: ‘popularly connected with <I>ang </I>“iron” but really = “tormentor”.’

<B>Angamandi   </B>QL has <I>anga </I>‘iron’ (which is the <I>a </I>of <I>tilkal, </I>pp. 106-7), <I>angaina </I>‘of iron’, <I>Angaron(ti) </I>‘Mountains of Iron’, and <I>Angamandu </I>or <I>Eremandu </I>‘Hells of Iron’ (added later: ‘or <I>Angamandi, </I>plural’). The Gnomish forms are <I>ang </I>‘iron’ (as in <I>Angol, </I>see under <I>Eriol), an-grin </I>‘of iron’, <I>Angband — </I>which, strangely, is said in GL to be ’Melko's great fortress after the battle of Countless Lamentation down to the battle of the Twilit

