---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P149.
date: 1983-01-01 02:29
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 149
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>The Coming of the Elves </I>149
</p>

Gleam marble temples white, and dazzling halls;<BR>And tawny shadows fingered long are made<BR>In fretted bars upon their ivory walls<BR>By massy trees rock-rooted in the shade<BR>Like stony chiselled pillars of the vault<BR>With shaft and capital of black basalt.<BR>There slow forgotten days for ever reap<BR>The silent shadows counting out rich hours;<BR>And no voice stirs; and all the marble towers<BR>White, hot and soundless, ever burn and sleep.

The story of the evolution of sea-birds by Ossë, and of how the Solosimpi went at last to Valinor in ships of swan-shape drawn by gulls, to the chagrin of Ossë, is greatly at variance with the account in <I>The Silmarillion </I>(p. 61):

Through a long age they [the Teleri] dwelt in Tol Eressëa; but slowly their hearts were changed, and were drawn towards the light that flowed out over the sea to the Lonely Isle. They were torn between the love of music of the waves upon their shores, and the desire to see again their kindred and to look upon the splendour of Valinor; but in the end desire of the light was the stronger. Therefore Ulmo, submitting to the will of the Valar, sent to them Ossë, their friend, and he though grieving taught them the craft of ship-building; and when their ships were built he brought them as his parting gift many strong-winged swans. Then the swans drew the white ships of the Teleri over the windless sea; and thus at last and latest they came to Aman and the shores of Eldamar.

But the swans remained as a gift of Ossë to the Elves of Tol Eressëa, and the ships of the Teleri retained the form of the ships built by Aulë for the Solosimpi: they ‘were made in the likeness of swans, with beaks of gold and eyes of gold and jet’ <I>(ibid.).</I>

The passage of geographical description that follows (p. 125) is curious; for it is extremely similar to (and even in some phrases identical with) that in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar and the Building of Valinor, </I>p. 68. An explanation of this repetition is suggested on p. 150. This second version gives in fact little new information, its chief difference of

