---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P141.
date: 1983-01-01 02:21
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 141
characters: 
tags: ["Name change", 'Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Gim-Githil', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Habbanan', 'Inwithiel', 'Meril-i-Turinqi', 'Silubrilthin', 'Tindriel', 'Timoglin', 'Tinwelint', 'Tol Eressëa', 'Tinwë']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
there, and from which one can see that he altered the pencilled original somewhat as he went along. At the words ‘glistened wondrously’, however, he abandoned the writing of the new text in ink, and from this point we have only the original pencilled manuscript, which is in places exceedingly difficult to read, being more hasty, and also soft and smudged in the course of time. In deciphering this text I have been in places defeated, and I use brackets and question-marks to indicate uncertain readings, and rows of dots to show roughly the length of illegible words.
</p>

It is to be emphasized therefore that from here on there is only a <I>first draft</I>, and one written very rapidly, dashed onto the page.

[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p133) <I>Arvalin:</I> here and subsequently emended from <I>Habbanan;</I> see note 7. The explanation is clearly that the name <I>Arvalin</I> came in at or before the time of the rewriting in ink over the pencilled text; though further on in the narrative we are here at an earlier stage of composition.

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p138) The word might be read as ‘wizardous’.

[11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p138) Other forms (beginning <I>Sigm-</I>) preceded <I>Silubrilthin</I> which cannot be read with certainty. Meril speaks as if the Gnomish name was the form used in Tol Eressëa, but it is not clear why.

[12]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p139) ‘my grandsire's sire’: the original reading was ‘my grand-sire’.

<BR>
Changes made to names in The Coming <I>of the Elves and the Making of Kôr</I>

Tinwë Linto < <I>Linwë Tinto</I> (this latter is the form of the name in an interpolated passage in the preceding tale, see [p. 114]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p114) note 1). At two subsequent occurrences of <I>Linwë</I> (see [p. 140]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p140) note 3) the name was not changed, clearly through oversight; in the two added passages where the name occurs (see [p. 140]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p140) notes 4 and 5) the form is <I>Tinwë (Linto</I>).

<I>Inwithiel    < Gim-githil</I> (the same change in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I>, see [p. 11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p11)).

<I>Tinwelint    < Tintoglin</I>.

<I>Wendelin    < Tindriel</I> (cf. the interpolated passage in the previous tale, [p. 114]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p114) note 1).

<I>Arvalin    < Habbanan</I> throughout the tale except once, where the name was written <I>Arvalin</I> from the first; see [p. 140]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p140) note 7 and note 9 above.

