---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P33. The Trees of Kortirion
date: 1983-01-01 00:33
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 33
characters: 
glossaries: ['fane']
tags: ["poem", 'Alalminórë', 'Alalminor', 'Faery Realms', 'Silver Wain']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>115</SUB> Are wafted by slow airs to windy coasts,

<SUB>116</SUB> And glimmering sadly down the tide are borne.

<SUB>117</SUB> Bare are thy trees become, Kortirion;

<SUB>118</SUB> The rotted raiment from their bones is gone.

<SUB>119</SUB> The seven candles of the Silver Wain,

<SUB>120</SUB> Like lighted tapers in a darkened fane,

<SUB>121</SUB> Now flare above the fallen year.

<SUB>122</SUB> Though court and street now cold and empty lie,

<SUB>123</SUB> And Elves dance seldom neath the barren sky,

<SUB>124</SUB> Yet under the white moon there is a sound

<SUB>125</SUB> Of buried music still beneath the ground.

<SUB>126</SUB> When winter comes, I would meet winter here.

<SUB>127</SUB> I would not seek the desert, or red palaces

<SUB>128</SUB> Where reigns the sun, nor sail to magic isles,

<SUB>129</SUB> Nor climb the hoary mountains' stony terraces;

<SUB>130</SUB> And tolling faintly over windy miles

<SUB>131</SUB> To my heart calls no distant bell that rings.

<SUB>132</SUB> In crowded cities of the Earthly Kings.

<SUB>133</SUB> For here is heartsease still, and deep content,

<SUB>134</SUB> Though sadness haunt the Land of withered Elms

<SUB>135</SUB> (Alalminórë in the Faery Realms);

<SUB>136</SUB> And making music still in sweet lament

<SUB>137</SUB> The Elves here holy and immortal dwell,

<SUB>138</SUB> And on the stones and trees there lies a spell.

<BR>

I give lastly the final poem, in the second of two slightly different versions; composed (as I believe) nearly half a century after the first.

<I>The Trees of Kortirion</I>

<I><B>I</B>. Alalminórë</I>

<SUB>1</SUB> O ancient city on a leaguered hill!

<SUB>2</SUB> Old shadows linger in your broken gate,

<SUB>3</SUB> Your stones are grey, your old halls now are still,

<SUB>4</SUB> Your towers silent in the mist await

<SUB>5</SUB> Their crumbling end, while through the storeyed elms

