---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P190.
date: 1983-01-01 03:10
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 190
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
190      THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

Changes made to names in<BR>The <I>Flight of the Noldoli</I>

<I>Helkaraksë   < Qerkaringa </I>(for the details of, and the explanation of this change, see note 5 above).

<I>Arvalin    < Habbanan.</I>

<I>Amnos    < Emnon < Morniento.</I>

<I>Hanstovánen   </I>The name of ‘the beaching place of Mornië’ was<BR>first written <I>Mornielta </I>(last letters uncertain), then <I>Vane </I>(or<BR><I>Vone) Hansto; </I>this latter was not struck out, but the form<BR>in the text (which may also be read as <I>Hanstavánen) </I>seems<BR>to be the final one. After <I>Hanstovánen </I>follows ‘or. .....

<I>Mornien.</I>

Commentary on<BR>The Flight <I>of </I>the <I>Noldoli</I>

In this ‘tale’ (in reality the conclusion of the long tale of ‘The Theft of Melko and the Darkening of Valinor’ told by Lindo and finished by Rúmil) is found the oldest account of the departure of the Gnomes out of Valinor. Here the Gods continue the vain pursuit and search long after Melko has escaped, and moreover are aided in it by the Eldar (including the Solosimpi, who as the later Teleri portrayed in <I>The Silmarillion </I>would hardly have left their shores and their ships). Fëanor's return to Kôr and his haranguing of the Noldoli (and, in this account, others) by the light of their torches is seen to be an original feature; but his sons have not yet appeared, nor indeed any of the Noldorin princes descended from Finwë save Turondo (Turgon), of whom it is specifically stated (p. 186) that he was ‘not yet upon the Earth’. There is no Oath of Fëanor, and the later story of the divided counsels of the Noldor appears only in the attempt of Nólemë (Finwë) to calm the people — Nólemë thus playing the later part of Finarfin <I>(The Silmarillion </I>p. 83). In <I>The Silmarillion, </I>after the Kinslaying at Alqualondë and the Prophecy of the North, Finarfin and many of his people returned to Valinor and were pardoned by the Valar (p. 88); but here those few who went back found there was no welcome for them, or else ‘Mandos has them’ (p. 188).

In the rejected section given on pp. 181-2, which was re- <BR>placed by the account of the battle of Kópas Alqalunten, the

