---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P140. V. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 02:20
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 140
characters: 
tags: ["Notes", 'Eldamar', 'Ellu', 'Eriol', 'Faery', 'Habbanan', 'Harmalin', 'Ingil', 'Island Elves', 'Lindo', 'Línwë Tinto', 'Linwë', 'Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva', 'Meril-i-Turinqi']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
nought, gazing at the long radiance of the westering sun gleaming through the apple boles, and dreaming of Faery. At length said Meril: Tare now home, for the afternoon has waned, and the telling of the tale has set a weight of desire in my heart and in thine. But be in patience and bide yet ere ye seek fellowship with that sad kindred of the Island Elves. ’
</p>

But Eriol said: ‘Even now I know not and it passes my heart to guess how all that loveliness came to fading, or the Elves might be prevailed to depart from Eldamar.’

But Meril said: ‘Nay, I have lengthened the tale too much for love of those days, and many great things lie between the making of the gems and the coming back to Tol Eressëa: but these things many know as well as I, and Lindo or Rúmil of Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva would tell them more skilfully than I.’ Then did she and Eriol fare back to the house of flowers, and Eriol took his leave ere the western face of Ingil's tower was yet grown grey with dusk.

<BR>
NOTES

[1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p121)  The manuscript has <I>Vairë</I>, but this can only be a slip.

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p121) The occurrence of the name <I>Telimpë</I> here, and again later in the tale, as also in that of <I>The Sun and Moon</I>, is curious; in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar and the Building of , Valinor</I> the name was changed at its first appearance from <I>Telimpë (Silindrin</I>) to <I>Silindrin</I>, and at subsequent occurrences <I>Silindrin</I> was written from the first ([p. 80]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p80)).

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p124) The manuscript has <I>Linwë</I> here, and again below; see under <I>Tinwë Linto</I> in ‘Changes made to names' at the end of these notes.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p129) This sentence, from ‘and beguiled . . .’, was added after, though not to all appearance much after, the writing of the text.

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p129) This sentence, from ‘and one Ellu . . .’, was added at the same time as that referred to in note 4.

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p131) The first occurrence of the form <I>Uinen</I>, and so written at the time of composition (i.e. not corrected from <I>Ónen</I>).

[7]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p131) <I>Arvalin:</I> thus written at the time of composition, not emended from <I>Habbanan</I> or <I>Harmalin</I> as previously.

[8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p132) When my father wrote these texts, he wrote first in pencil, and then subsequently wrote over the top of it in ink, erasing the pencilled text—of which bits can be read here and

