---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P240.
date: 1983-01-01 04:00
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 240
characters: 
tags: ['Eldar', 'Elves']
description: 
published: true
---

Now living Men may not tread the swaying threads of Ilweran and few of the Eldar have the heart, yet other paths for Elves and Men to fare to Valinor are there none since those days save one alone, and it is very dark; yet is it very short, the shortest and swiftest of all roads, and very rough, for Mandos made it and Fui set it in its place. Qalvanda is it called, the Road of Death, and it leads only to the halls of Mandos and Fui. Twofold is it, and one way tread the Elves and the other the souls of Men, and never do they mingle.<SUP>[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p249)</SUP>

Thus,’ said Vairë, ‘was the Hiding of Valinor achieved, and the Valar let slip the chance of a glory more splendid and enduring even than that great glory which was theirs and still is. Nonetheless are there still very mighty tidings of those days to tell, of which perchance I may now recount to you a few; and one I will name <I>The Haven of the Sun</I>.

Behold, now are the hearts of all set at rest by the truce<SUP>[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p249)</SUP> of Manwë and the Valar, and while the Gods feast in Valmar and the heaven is full of the ungoverned glory of the Ships of Light the Elves go back at last to rebuild the happiness of Kôr; and there they seek to forget all the sorrows and all the labours that had come among them since the Release of Melko. Now does Kôr become the fairest and most delicate-lovely of all the realms of Valinor, for in the courtyard of Inwë those two elfin trees shone still tenderly; and they were shoots of the glorious Trees now dead given by the Gods to Inwë in the first days of that town's building. Others too had been given to Nólemë, but these were uprooted and were gone no one knew whither, and more had there never been.<SUP>[11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p249)</SUP>

Yet even though the Elves trusted the Valar to shield the land and weave protection about them, and though the days of sorrow faring into the past grew dim, still could they  not yet utterly shake away the memory of their unhappiness; nor did they ever so, until after the magic way of Lórien was complete and the children of the fathers of the fathers of Men first were suffered to come there in sweet sleep; then did a new joy burn very brightly in their hearts, but these things were not yet come to pass and Men were yet but new-wakened on the Earth.

But Manwë and Ulmo knowing their hour was come held high councils for their protection. Many designs they made

