---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P222. VIII. Commentary
date: 1983-01-01 03:42
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 222
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary"]
description: 
published: true
---

<I>Ship of Morning < Kalaventë</I> ([p. 213]({{sipe.baseurl}}/vol01-p213); <I>i-Kalaventë</I> ‘the Ship of Light’ occurs unemended in the text on [p. 210]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p210)).

<I>the Sunship's flames    < the flames of Kalaventë</I> ([p. 216]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p216)).

<I>Sári   < Kalavénë</I> (pp. [216]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p216), [218]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p218). <I>Kalavénë</I> is the form in the original version, see [note 19]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p220)).

<BR>
Commentary on <I>The Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>

The effect of the opening of this tale is undoubtedly to emphasize more strongly than in the later accounts the horror aroused by the deeds of the Noldoli (notable is Aulë's bitterness against them, of which nothing is said afterwards), and also the finality and absoluteness of their exclusion from Valinor. But the idea that some Gnomes remained in Valinor (the Aulenossë, [p. 197]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p197)) survived; cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 84:

And of all the Noldor in Valinor, who were grown now to a great people, but one tithe refused to take the road: some for the love that they bore to the Valar (and to Aulë not least), some for the love of Tirion and the many things that they had made; none for fear of peril by the way.

Sorontur's mission and the tidings that he brought back were to be abandoned. Very striking is his account of the empty ships drifting, of which ‘some were burning with bright fires': the origin of Fëanor's burning of the ships of the Teleri at Losgar in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 90), where however there is a more evident reason for doing so. That Melko's second dwelling-place in the Great Lands was distinct from Utumna is here expressly stated, as also that it was in the Iron Mountains (cf. pp. [164]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p164), [175]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p175)); the name <I>Angamandi</I> ‘Hells of Iron’ has occurred once in the <I>Lost Tales,</I> in the very strange account of the fate of Men after death ([p. 78]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p78)). In later accounts Angband was built on the site of Utumno, but finally they were separated again, and in <I>The Silmarillion</I> Angband had existed from ancient days before the captivity of Melkor ([p. 47]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p47)). It is not explained in the present tale why ‘never more will Utumna open to him’ ([p. 197]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p197)), but doubtless it was because Tulkas and Ulmo broke its gates and piled hills of stone upon them ([p. 111]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p111)).

