---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P53.
date: 1983-01-01 00:53
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 53
characters: 
tags: ['Ainur', 'Aulë', 'Ilúvatar', 'Manwë', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Music of the Ainur', 'Secret Fire']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
went forth from his dwellings, past those fair regions he had fashioned for the Ainur, out into the dark places; and he bade the Ainur follow him.
</p>

Now when they reached the midmost void they beheld a sight of surpassing beauty and wonder where before had been emptiness; but Ilúvatar said: ’ ‘Behold your choiring and your music! Even as ye played so of my will your music took shape, and lo! even now the world unfolds and its history begins as did my theme in your hands. Each one herein will find contained within the design that is mine the adornments and embellishments that he himself devised; nay, even Melko will discover those things there which he thought to contrive of his own heart, out of harmony with my mind, and he will find them but a part of the whole and tributary to its glory. One thing only have I added, the fire that giveth Life and Reality” — and behold, the Secret Fire burnt at the heart of the world.

Then the Ainur marvelled to see how the world was globed amid the void and yet separated from it; and they rejoiced to see light, and found it was both white and golden, and they laughed for the pleasure of colours, and for the great roaring of the ocean they were filled with longing. Their hearts were glad because of air and the winds, and the matters whereof the Earth was made — iron and stone and silver and gold and many substances: but of all these water was held the fairest and most goodly and most greatly praised. Indeed there liveth still in water a deeper echo of the Music of the Ainur than in any substance else that is in the world, and at this latest day many of the Sons of Men will hearken unsat-edly to the voice of the Sea and long for they know not what.

Know then that water was for the most part the dream and invention of Ulmo, an Ainu whom Ilúvatar had instructed deeper than all others in the depths of music; while the air and winds and the ethers of the firmament had Manwë Sú-limo devised, greatest and most noble of the Ainur. The earth and most of its goodly substances did Aulë contrive, whom Ilúvatar had taught many things of wisdom scarce less than . Melko, yet was there much therein that was nought of his.<SUP>[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p58)</SUP>

Now Ilúvatar spake to Ulmo and said: “Seest thou not how Melko hath bethought him of biting colds without 

