---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P225.
date: 1983-01-01 03:45
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 225
characters: 
tags: ['Eruman']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and the reason for avoiding the south is Ungweliant's presence there. This seems to give Ungweliant a great importance and also a vast area subject to her power of absorbing light. It is not made clear in the tale of <I>The Darkening of Valinor</I> where her dwelling was. It is said (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p167">p. 167</a>) that Melko wandered ‘the dark plains of Eruman, and farther south than anyone yet had penetrated he found a region of the deepest gloom’ — the region where he found the cavern of Ungweliant, which had ‘a subterranean outlet on the sea’; and after the destruction of the Trees Ungweliant ‘gets her gone southward and over the mountains to her home’ (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p170">p. 170</a>). It is impossible to tell from the vague lines on the little map (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83">p. 83</a>) what was at this time the configuration of the southern lands and seas.
</p>

In comparison with the last part of the tale, concerning the last fruit of Laurelin and the last flower of Silpion, the making from them of the Sun and Moon, and the launching of their vessels ([pp. 205-19]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p205)), Chapter XI of <I>The Silmarillion</I> (constituted from two later versions not greatly dissimilar the one from the other) is extremely brief. Despite many differences the later versions read in places almost as summaries of the early story, but it is often hard to say whether the shortening depends rather on my father's feeling (certainly present, see p. 194) that the description was too long, was taking too large a place in the total structure, or an actual rejection of some of the ideas it contains, and a desire to diminish the extreme ‘concreteness’ of its images. Certainly there is here a revelling in materials of ‘magic’ property, gold, silver, crystal, glass, and above all light conceived as a liquid element, or as dew, as honey, an element that can be bathed in and gathered into vessels, that has quite largely disappeared from <I>The Silmarillion</I> (although, of course, the idea of light as liquid, dripping down, poured and hoarded, sucked up by Ungoliant, remained essential to the conception of the Trees, this idea becomes in the later writing less palpable and the divine operations are given less ‘physical’ explanation and justification).

As a result of this fullness and intensity of description, the origin of the Sun and Moon in the last fruit and last flower of the Trees has less of mystery than in the succinct and beautiful language of <I>The Silmarillion;</I> but also much is said

