---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】xx.
date: 1983-01-01 00:00:20
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["FOREWORD"]
page_num: xx
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
actual textual evidences. To achieve this I have drastically reduced the quantity of annotation to the texts in these ways: the many changes made to names are all recorded, but they are lumped together at the end of each tale, not recorded individually at each occurrence (the places where the names occur can be found from the Index); almost all annotation concerned with content is taken up into, or boiled down into, a commentary or short essay following each tale; and almost all linguistic comment (primarily the etymology of names) is collected in an Appendix on Names at the end of the book, where will be found a great deal of information relating to the earliest stages of the ‘Elvish’ languages. In this way the numbered notes are very largely restricted to variants and divergences found in other texts, and the reader who does not wish to trouble with these can read the <I>Tales</I> knowing that that is almost all that he is missing.
</p>

The commentaries are limited in their scope, being mostly concerned to discuss the implications of what is said within the context of the <I>Tales</I> themselves, and to compare them with the published <I>Silmarillion</I>. I have eschewed parallels, sources, influences; and have mostly avoided the complexities of the development between the <I>Lost Tales</I> and the published work (since to indicate these even cursorily would, I think, be distracting), treating the matter in a simplified way, as between two fixed points. I do not suppose for one moment that my analyses will prove either altogether just or altogether accurate, and there must be clues to the solution of puzzling features in the <I>Tales</I> which I have failed to observe. There is also included a short glossary of words occurring in the <I>Tales</I> and poems that are obsolete, archaic, or rare.

The texts are given in a form very close to that of the original manuscripts. Only the most minor and obvious slips have been silently corrected; where sentences fall awkwardly, or where there is a lack of grammatical cohesion, as is sometimes the case in the parts of the <I>Tales</I> that never got beyond a first rapid draft, I have let them stand. I have allowed myself greater freedom in providing punctuation, for my father when writing at speed often punctuated erratically or not at all; and I have gone further than he did in consistency of capitalisation. I have adopted, though hesitantly, a

