---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P93.
date: 1983-01-01 01:33
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 93
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and to whom they bring news upon Taniquetil from Middle-earth, had sent forth the race of Eagles'); he had in fact appeared already in the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, as “Thorndor [the Gnomish name] King of Eagles whom the Eldar name Ramandur’, Ramandur being subsequently emended to Sorontur.
</p>

Of Valmar and the dwellings of the Valar in the city scarcely anything survived in later writing, and there remain only phrases here and there (the ‘golden streets' and ‘silver domes' of Valmar, ‘Valmar of many bells') to suggest the solidity of the original description, where Tulkas’ house of many storeys had a tower of bronze and Oromë's halls were upheld by living trees with trophies and antlers hung upon their trunks. This is not to say that all such imagining was definitively abandoned: as I have said in the Foreword, the <I>Lost Tales</I> were followed by a version so compressed as to be no more than a resume (as was its purpose), and the later development of the mythology proceeded from that — a process of re-expansion. Many things never referred to again after the <I>Lost Tales</I> may have continued to exist in a state of suspension, as it were. Valmar certainly remained a city, with gates, streets, and dwellings. But in the context of the later work one could hardly conceive of the tempestuous Ossë being possessed of a house in Valmar, even if its floor were of seawater and its roof of foam; and of course the hall of Makar and Meássë (where the life described owes something to the myths of the Unending Battle in ancient Scandinavia) disappeared with the disappearance of those divinities — a ‘Melko-faction’ in Valinor that was bound to prove an embarrassment.

Several features of the original descriptions endured: the rarity of Ulmo's visits to Valmar (cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 40), the frequency with which Palúrien and Oromë visit ‘the world without’ <I>(ibid</I>. pp. 29,41,47), the association of the gardens of Lórien with Silpion and of the gardens of Vána with Lau-relin <I>(ibid</I>. p. 99); and much that is said here of the divine ‘characters' can be seen to have remained, even if differently expressed. Here also appears Nessa, already as the wife of Tulkas and the sister of Oromë, excelling in the dance; and Ómar-Amillo is now named the brother of Noldorin-Salmar.

