---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P254.
date: 1983-01-01 04:14
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 254
characters: 
tags: ['Children of (the) Earth', 'Cottage of Lost Play', 'Eriol', 'Haven of the Sun', 'Kalormë', 'Kôr', 'Lórien', 'Mandos', 'Men', 'Olórë Mallë', 'Oromë', 'Rainbow']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
made, so that there was now no possibility of any crossing by that route.
</p>

Of the three ‘roads’ made by Lórien, Oromë, and Mandos there is no vestige in my father's later writing. The Rainbow is never mentioned, nor is there ever any hint of an explanation of how Men and Elves pass to the halls of Mandos. But it is difficult to interpret this conception of the ‘roads' — to know to what extent there was a purely figurative content in the idea.

For the road of Lórien, Olóre Mallë the Path of Dreams, which is described by Vairë in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I>, see pp. 7, 19 ff. There Vairë told that Olóre Mallë came from the lands of Men, that it was ‘a lane of deep banks and great overhanging hedges, beyond which stood many tall trees wherein a perpetual whisper seemed to live’, and that from this lane a high gate led to the Cottage of the Children or of the Play of Sleep. This was not far from Kôr, and to it came ‘the children of the fathers of the fathers of Men’; the Eldar guided them into the Cottage and its garden if they could, ‘lest they strayed into Kôr and became enamored of the glory of Valinor’. The accounts in the two tales seem to be in general agreement, though it is difficult to understand the words in the present passage ‘it ran past the Cottage of the Children of the Earth and <I>thence</I> down the “lane of whispering elms” <I>until it reached</I> the sea’. It is very notable that still at this stage in the development of the mythology, when so much more had been written since the coming of Eriol to Tol Eressëa, the conception of the children of Men coming in sleep by a mysterious ‘road’ to a cottage in Valinor had by no means fallen away.

In the account of Oromë's making of the Rainbow-bridge, the noose that he cast caught on the summit of the great mountain Kalormë (‘Sun-rising-hill’) in the remotest East. This mountain is seen on the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, [p. 87]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p87).

The story that Vairë named ‘The Haven of the Sun’ ([pp. 240]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p240) ff.) provides the fullest picture of the structure of the world that is to be found in the earliest phase of the mythology. The Valar, to be sure, seem strangely ignorant on this subject — the nature of the world that came into being so largely from their own devising, if they needed Ulmo to acquaint them with such fundamental truths. A possible explanation

