---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P188. VII. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 03:08
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VII. THE FLIGHT OF THE NOLDOLI"]
page_num: 188
characters: 
tags: ["Notes", 'Eriol', 'Fëanor', 'Gondolin', 'Gnomes', 'Helkaraksë', 'Kôr', 'Lindo', 'Mandos', 'Melko', 'Mountains of Valinor', 'Noldoli', 'Noldor', 'Qerkaringa', 'Rúmil', 'Silmarils', 'Teleri', 'Two Trees', 'Darkening of Valinor']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Gondolin. Yet even so such things may not slay the Gnome-kin, and of those there lost still 'tis said some wander sadly there among the icehills, unknowing of all things that have befallen their folk, and some essayed to get them back to Valinor, and Mandos has them, and some following after found in long days their unhappy kin again. Howso it be, a gaunt and lessened band indeed did in the end reach the rocky soil of the Eastern lands, and there stood looking backward over the ice of Helkaraksë and of Qerkaringa at the spurs of hills beyond the sea, for far away in the gathering southward mists rose those most glorious heights of Valinor, fencing them for ever from their kindred and their homes.
</p>

Thus came the Noldoli into the world. ’

And with those words of Rúmil's the story of the darkening of Valinor was at an end.

‘Great was the power of Melko for ill,' said Eriol, ‘if he could indeed destroy with his cunning the happiness and glory of the Gods and of the Elves, darkening the light of their hearts no less than of their dwelling, and bringing all their love to naught! This must surely be the worst deed that ever he has done.’

‘Of a truth never has such evil again been done in Valinor, ’ said Lindo, ‘but Melko's hand has laboured at worse things in the world, and the seeds of his evil have waxen since those days to a great and terrible growth.’

‘Nay,’ said Eriol, ‘yet can my heart not think of other griefs, for sorrow at the destruction of those most fair Trees and the darkness of the world. ’

<BR>
NOTES

1  The manuscript seems certainly to have the form <I>Noldor</I> here. — It is to be remembered that in the old story the Teleri (i.e. the later Vanyar) had not departed from Kôr; see [p. 176]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p176).

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p181) At the top of the manuscript page and fairly clearly referring to Fëanor's words my father wrote: ‘Increase the element of the desire for Silmarils’. Another note refers to the section of the narrative that begins here and says that it ‘wants a lot of revision: the [?thirst ?lust] for jewels — especially for the sacred Silmarils — wants emphasizing. And the all-

