---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P276.
date: 1983-01-01 04:36
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 276
characters: 
tags: ['Angband', 'Battle of Unnumbered Tears', 'Beleriand', 'Doriath', 'Ered Wethrin', 'Fëanor', 'Fëanorians', 'Sons of Fëanor', 'Gondolin', 'Gnomes', 'The Fall of Gondolin']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Beleriand and their taking service with the Noldorin Kings, had yet to emerge; indeed these outlines give the effect of only a brief time elapsing between the coming of the Noldoli from Kôr and their great defeat. This effect may be to some extent the result of the compressed nature of these outlines, and indeed the reference in the last of them, D, to the practice of many arts by the Noldoli (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p273">p. 273</a>) somewhat counteracts the impression — in any case, Turgon, born when the Gnomes were in Hisilómë or (according to D) when they were encamped by Sirion, is full grown at the Battle of Unnumbered Tears.<SUP><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279">12</a></SUP> Even so, the picture in <I>The Silmarillion</I> of a period of centuries elapsing while Morgoth was straitly confined in Angband and ‘behind the guard of their armies in the north the Noldor built their dwellings and their towers' is emphatically not present. In later ‘phases' of the history my father steadily expanded the period between the rising of the Sun and Moon and the Battle of Unnumbered Tears. It is essential, also, to the old conception that Melko's victory was so complete and overwhelming: vast numbers of the Noldoli became his thralls, and wherever they went lived in the slavery of his spell; in Gondolin alone were they free — so in the old tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> it is said that the people of Gondolin ‘were that kin of the Noldoli who alone escaped Melko's power, when at the Battle of Unnumbered Tears he slew and enslaved their folk and wove spells about them and caused them to dwell in the Hells of Iron, faring thence at his will and bidding only’. Moreover Gondolin was not founded until <I>after</I> the Battle of Unnumbered Tears.<SUP><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279">13</a></SUP>
</p>

Of Fëanor's death in the early conception we can discern little; but at least it is clear that it bore no relation to the story of his death in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 107). In these early outlines the Noldoli, leaving Hisilómë, had their first affray with the Orcs in the foothills of the Iron Mountains or in the pass of the Bitter Hills, and these heights pretty clearly correspond to the later Mountains of Shadow, Ered Wethrin (see pp. [175]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p175), [270]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p270)); but in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 106) the first encounter of the Noldor with the Orcs was in Mithrim.

The meeting of Gnomes and Ilkorins survived in the meeting of the new-come Noldor with the Grey-elves of Mithrim (<I>ibid</I>. p. 108); but the Noldor heard rather of the power of King Thingol of Doriath than of the Battle of Palisor.

