---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P165.
date: 1983-01-01 02:45
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 165
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

Therefore does Manwë bid them now, an they will, go back to Kôr, and, if they so desire, busy themselves in fashioning gems and fabrics anew, and all things of beauty and cost that they may need in their labour shall be given to them even more lavishly than before.

But when Fëanor heard this saying, he said: ‘ ‘Yea, but who shall give us back the joyous heart without which works of loveliness and magic cannot be? — and Bruithwir is dead, and my heart also.” Many nonetheless went then back to Kôr, and some semblance of old joy .is then restored, though for the lessened happiness of their hearts their labours do not bring forth gems of the old lustre and glory. But Fëanor dwelt in sorrow with a few folk in Sirnúmen, and though he sought day and night to do so he could in no wise make other jewels like to the Silmarils of old, that Melko snatched away; nor indeed has any craftsman ever done so since. At length does he abandon the attempt, sitting rather beside the tomb of Bruithwir, that is called the Mound of the First Sorrow,\* and is well named for all the woe that came from the death of him who was laid there. There brooded Fëanor bitter thoughts, till his brain grew dazed by the black vapours of his heart, and he arose and went to Kôr. There did he speak to the Gnomes, dwelling on their wrongs and sorrows and their minished wealth and glory — bidding them leave this prison-house and get them into the world. “As cowards have the Valar become; but the hearts of the Eldar are not weak, and we will see what is our own, and if we may not get it by stealth we will do so by violence. There shall be war between the Children of Ilúvatar and Ainu Melko. What if we perish in our quest? The dark halls of Vê be little worse than this bright prison. . . .”<SUP>[9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p171)</SUP> And he prevailed thus upon some to go before Manwë with himself and demand that the Noldoli be suffered to leave Valinor in peace and set safely by the Gods upon the shores of the world whence they had of old been ferried.

Then Manwë was grieved by their request and forbade the Gnomes to utter such words in Kôr if they desired still to dwell there among the other Elves; but then changing from

<BR>
\* In the margin are written Gnomish names: <I>‘Cûm a Gumlaith </I>or <I>Cûm a Thegranaithos ’.</I>

