---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P10. I. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 00:10
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 10
characters: 
tags: ["Notes"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
children that are with us. Yet the most come back hither and tell us many stories and many sad things of their journeys — and now I have told most of what is to tell of the Cottage of Lost Play.’
</p>

Then Eriol said: ‘Now these are tidings sad and yet good to hear, and I remember me of certain words that my father spake in my early boyhood. It had long, said he, been a tradition in our kindred that one of our father's fathers would speak of a fair house and magic gardens, of a wondrous town, and of a music full of all beauty and longing — and these things he said he had seen and heard as a child, though how and where was not told. Now all his life was he restless, as if a longing half-expressed for unknown things dwelt within him; and 'tis said that he died among rocks on a lonely coast on a night of storm — and moreover that most of his children and their children since have been of a restless mind — and methinks I know now the truth of the matter. ’

And Vairë said that 'twas like to be that one of his kindred had found the rocks of Eldamar in those old days.

<br>
NOTES

1   <I>Gnomes:</I> the Second Kindred, the <I>Noldoli</I> (later <I>Noldor</I>). For the use of the word <I>Gnomes</I> see [p. 38]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p38); and for the linguistic distinction made here see [pp. 46-7](MiddleEarth/vol01-p46).

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p3)  The ‘Great Lands' are the lands East of the Great Sea. The term ‘Middle-earth’ is never used in the <I>Lost Tales</I>, and in fact does not appear until writings of the 1930s.

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p5)  In both MSS the words ‘of all the Eldar’ are followed by: ‘for of most noble there were none, seeing that to be of the blood of the Eldar is equal and sufficient’; but this was struck out in the second MS.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p5)  The original reading was ‘the great Tirion’, changed to ‘the great tower’.

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p7) This sentence, from ‘a son meseems . . .’, replaced in the original MS an earlier reading: ‘shall it be of Earendel the wanderer, who alone of the sons of Men has had great traffic with the Valar and Elves, who alone of their kindred has seen beyond Taniquetil, even he who sails for ever in the firmament?’

