---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P35.
date: 1983-01-01 00:35
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 35
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<I><B>II</B>. Narquelion\*</I>

<SUB>43</SUB> Alalminórë! Green heart of this Isle

<SUB>44</SUB> Where linger yet the Faithful Companies!

<SUB>45</SUB> Still undespairing here they slowly file

<SUB>46</SUB> Down lonely paths with solemn harmonies:

<SUB>47</SUB> The Fair, the first-born in an elder day,

<SUB>48</SUB> Immortal Elves, who singing on their way

<SUB>49</SUB> Of bliss of old and grief, though men forget,

<SUB>50</SUB> Pass like a wind among the rustling trees,

<SUB>51</SUB> A wave of bowing grass, and men forget

<SUB>52</SUB> Their voices calling from a time we do not know,

<SUB>53</SUB> Their gleaming hair like sunlight long ago.

<SUB>54</SUB> A wind in the grass! The turning of the year.

<SUB>55</SUB> A shiver in the reeds beside the stream,

<SUB>56</SUB> A whisper in the trees — afar they hear,

<SUB>57</SUB> Piercing the heart of summer's tangled dream,

<SUB>58</SUB> Chill music that a herald piper plays

<SUB>59</SUB> Foreseeing winter and the leafless days.

<SUB>60</SUB> The late flowers trembling on the ruined walls

<SUB>61</SUB> Already stoop to hear that elven-flute.

<SUB>62</SUB> Through the wood's sunny aisles and tree-propped halls

<SUB>63</SUB> Winding amid the green with clear cold note

<SUB>64</SUB> Like a thin strand of silver glass remote.

<SUB>65</SUB> The high-tide ebbs, the year will soon be spent;

<SUB>66</SUB> And all your trees, Kortirion, lament.

<SUB>67</SUB> At morn the whetstone rang upon the blade,

<SUB>68</SUB> At eve the grass and golden flowers were laid

<SUB>69</SUB> To wither, and the meadows bare.

<SUB>70</SUB> Now dimmed already comes the tardier dawn,

<SUB>71</SUB> Paler the sunlight fingers creep across the lawn.

<SUB>72</SUB> The days are passing. Gone like moths the nights

<SUB>73</SUB> When white wings fluttering danced like satellites

<BR>
\* With the name <I>Narquelion</I> (which appears also in the title in Elvish of the original poem, see [p. 25](\MiddleEarth\vol01-p25)) cf. <I>Narquelië</I> ‘Sun-fading’, name of the tenth month in Quenya <I>(The Lord of the Rings,</I> Appendix D).

