---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P49.
date: 1983-01-01 00:49
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 49
characters: 
tags: ['Ainur', 'Ainu', 'Bronweg', 'Elwenildo', 'Gondolin', 'Ilu', 'Ilúvatar', 'Ilverin', 'Littleheart', 'Manwë', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Sauron', 'Rúmil']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Voronwë who accompanied Tuor from Vinyamar to Gondolin in the later legend. Tevildo Prince of Cats was a demonic servant of Melko and the remote forerunner of Sauron; he is a principal actor in the original story of Beren and Tinúviel, which was also already written (the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I>).
</p>

Littleheart the Gong-warden, son of Bronweg, now receives an Elvish name, <I>Ilverin</I> (an emendation from <I>Elwen-ildo</I>).

<BR>

<I>The Music of the Ainur</I>

The original hastily pencilled and much emended draft text of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> is still extant, on loose sheets placed inside the cover of the notebook that contains a fuller and much more finished text written in ink. This second version was however closely based on the first, and changed it chiefly by additions. The text given here is the second, but some passages where the two differ notably are annotated (few of the differences between the two texts are in my opinion of much significance). It will be seen from passages of the first draft given in the notes that the plural was originally <I>Ainu</I>, not <I>Ainur</I>, and that <I>Ilúvatar</I> was originally <I>Ilu</I> (but <I>Ilúvatar</I> also occurs in the draft).

Then said Rúmil:

‘Hear now things that have not been heard among Men, and the Elves speak seldom of them; yet did Manwë Súlimo, Lord of Elves and Men, whisper them to the fathers of my father in the deeps of time. ’ Behold, Ilúvatar dwelt alone. Before all things he sang into being the Ainur first, and greatest is their power and glory of all his creatures within the world and without. Thereafter he fashioned them dwellings in the void, and dwelt among them, teaching them all manner of things, and the greatest of these was music.

Now he would speak propounding to them themes of song and joyous hymn, revealing many of the great and wonderful things that he devised ever in his mind and heart, and now they would make music unto him, and the voices of their instruments rise in splendour about his throne.

Upon a time Ilúvatar propounded a mighty design of his heart to the Ainur, unfolding a history whose vastness and

