---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P302.
date: 1983-01-01 05:02
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 302
characters: ['Nielíqui', 'Nielluin', 'Nienna', 'Noldoli']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
name of the violet or pansy, and <I>Helinyetillë</I> is glossed ‘Eyes of Heartsease’ (that being a name of the pansy); cf. <I>yéta</I> ‘look at’. But in QL this is a name of Erinti. There was clearly much early shifting among the goddesses of Spring, the ascription of names and roles (see <I>Erinti). Melesta</I> is doubtless from root MELE ‘love’ <I>(meles(së</I>) ‘love’, <I>melwa</I> ‘lovely’, etc.; Gnomish <I>mel-</I>'to love’, <I>meleth</I> ‘love’, <I>melon, meltha</I> ‘beloved’, etc.).
</p>

<B>Nielíqui</B>   In QL this name <I>(Nieliqi</I>, also <I>Nielikki, Nyelikki</I>) is derived from the root NYEHE ‘weep’ (see <I>Nienna</I>). Where her tears fell snowdrops <I>(nieniqë</I>, literally ‘white tear’) sprang. See the poem <I>Nieninqë</I> in J. R. R. Tolkien, <I>The Monsters and the Critics and Other Essays</I>, 1983, p. 215. For <I>ning</I> see <I>[Taniquetil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Taniquetil</I>).

The second element of <I>Nielíqui</I> is presumably from the root LIQI, whence <I>linqë</I> ‘water’, <I>liqin</I> ‘wet’, <I>liqis</I> ‘transparence’, etc. (see <I>Ulmo</I>).

<B>Nielluin</B>   This name of the star Sirius is translated in the text ([p. 203]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p203)) as ‘the Bee of Azure’ (see <I>[Ingil]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Ingil)</I>). The first element is from the root NEHE, whence <I>nektë</I> ‘honey’, <I>nier</I> (< <I>neier < nexier</I>) ‘honey-bee’, <I>nierwes</I> ‘hive’. The name of Sirius is given in QL as <I>Niellúnë</I> or <I>Nier-ninwa’</I>, both <I>ninwa</I> and <I>lúnë</I> are Qenya words meaning ‘blue’. In Gnomish the name of the star is <I>Niothluimi</I>, =Qenya <I>Nielluin: nio, nios</I> ‘bee’ and many related words, <I>luim</I> ‘blue’.

<B>Nienna</B>   In QL <I>Nyenna</I> the goddess is given under a root NYE(NE) ‘bleat’, whence <I>nyéni</I> ‘she-goat’, <I>nyéna-</I> ‘lament’, etc.; but there is a note ‘or all to root NYEHE’. This means ‘weep’: <I>nië</I> ‘tear’ (cf. <I>Nielíqui), nyenyë</I> ‘weeping’. In GL the forms of the name are <I>Nenni(r), Nenir, Ninir</I>, without etymological connections given, but cf. <I>nîn</I> ‘tear’.

<B>Noldoli</B>   The root NOL ‘know’ in QL has derivatives <I>Noldo</I> ‘Gnome’ and <I>Noldorinwa</I> adjective, <I>Noldomar</I> ‘Gnomeland’, and <I>Noldorin</I> ‘who dwelt awhile in Noldomar and brought the Gnomes back to Inwenórë’. It seems that <I>Noldomar</I> means the Great Lands. But it is very curious that in these entries, which are among the earliest, ‘Gnome’ is an emendation of ‘Goblin’; cf. the

