---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P260.
date: 1983-01-01 04:20
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 260
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

What was Ailios’ tale to have been? (for I think it certain that it was never written). The answer becomes clear from a separate short text, very rough, which continues on from the discussion at the end of <I>The Hiding of Valinor,</I> given above. This tells that at length the day of Turuhalmë was come, and the company from Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva went into the snowy woods to bring back firewood on sleighs. Never was the Tale-fire allowed to go out or to die into grey ash, but on the eve of Turuhalmë it sank always to a smaller blaze until Turuhalmë itself, when great logs were brought into the Room of the Tale-fire and being blessed by Lindo with ancient magic roared and flared anew upon the hearth. Vairë blessed the door and lintel of the hall and gave the key to Rúmil, making him once again the Door-ward, and to Littleheart was given the hammer of his gong. Then Lindo said, as he said each year:

‘Lift up your voices, O Pipers of the Shore, and ye Elves of Kôr sing aloud; and all ye Noldoli and hidden fairies of the world dance ye and sing, sing and dance O little children of Men that the House of Memory resound with your voices . . . ’

Then was sung a song of ancient days that the Eldar made when they dwelt beneath the wing of Manwë and sang on the great road from Kôr to the city of the Gods (see [p. 158]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p158)).

It was now six months since Eriol went to visit Meril-i-Turinqi beseeching a draught of <I>limpë</I> (see [pp. 102-4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p102)), and that desire had for a time fallen from him; but on this night he said to Lindo: ‘Would I might drink with thee!’ To this Lindo replied that Eriol should not ‘think to overpass the bounds that Ilúvatar hath set’, but also that he should consider that ‘not yet hath Meril denied thee thy desire for ever’. Then Eriol was sad, for he guessed in his deepest heart that ‘the savour of <I>limpë</I> and the blessedness of the Elves might not be his for ever’.

The text ends with Ailios preparing to tell a tale: ‘I tell but as I may those things I have seen and known of very ancient days within the world when the Sun rose first, and there was travail and much sorrow, for Melko reigned unhampered and the power and strength that went forth from Angamandi reached almost to the ends of the great Earth.’

