---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P285.
date: 1983-01-01 04:45
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 285
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Appendix ’       </I> 285
</p>

Pool’ (when Tulkas finally overthrew Melko). See <I>Mandos.</I>

<B>Angol   </B>See <I>Eriol.</I>

<B>Arvalin   </B>See <I>Eruman.</I>

<B>Aryador   </B>This is said (p. 127) to be the name among the Men of Hisilómë; but according to GL it was a word of Ilkorin origin, meaning ‘land or place of shadow’; QL <I>Arëandor, Arëanor</I> ‘name of a mountainous district, the abode of the Shadow Folk’ (see p. 270). See <I>Eruman.</I>

<B>Asgon   </B>GL has <I>Asgon</I> ‘name of a lake in Dor Lómin (Hisilómë), Q. <I>Aksanda’;</I> QL has <I>aksa</I> ‘waterfall’, of which the Gnomish equivalent is given as <I>acha</I> of the same meaning. (No light is cast on the later name <I>Mithrim</I> in the dictionaries.)

<B>Aulë </B>A word <I>aulë</I> ‘shaggy’ is given in QL as a derivative from a root owo (whence also <I>oa</I> ‘wool’, <I>uë</I> ‘fleece’), but without any indication that this is to be connected with the name of the Vala. The Gnomish form of his name is <I>Óla,</I> changed to <I>Óli,</I> without further information. In the Valar name-list Aulë is called also <I>Tamar</I> or <I>Tamildo.</I> These are given in QL without translation under root TAMA ‘smelt, forge’, with <I>tambë</I> ‘copper’ (the <I>t</I> of <I>tilkal,</I> pp. 106-7), <I>tambina</I> ‘of copper’, <I>tamin</I> ‘forge’; Gnomish words are <I>tam</I> ‘copper’, <I>tambin</I> ‘of copper’, <I>tambos</I> ‘cauldron’. For other names of Aulë see <I>Talka Marda.</I>

<B>Aulenossë </B>For <I>nossë</I> ‘kin, people’ see <I>Valinor.</I>

Aur   Gnomish name of the Sun; see <I>Ûr.</I>

<B>Balrog   </B>GL defines <I>Balrog</I> as ‘a kind of fire-demon; creatures and servants of Melko’. With the article the form is <I>i'Malrog,</I> plural <I>i'Malraugin.</I> Separate entries give <I>bal</I> ‘anguish’ (original initial consonant <I>mb-), balc</I> ‘cruel’; and <I>graug</I> ‘demon’. Qenya forms are mentioned: <I>araukë</I> and <I>Malkaraukë.</I> In QL <I>Malkaraukë</I> with other words such as <I>malkanë</I> ‘torture’ are given under a root MALA (MBALA) ‘(crush), hurt, damage’, but the relation of this to MALA ‘crush, squeeze’ (see <I>Olórë Matte)</I> was apparently not decided. There are also <I>Val-karaukë</I> and <I>valkanë</I> ‘torture’, but again the relationship is left obscure.

