---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P350.
date: 1983-01-01 05:50
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 350
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
viii         THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

My father was himself well aware that the absence of hobbits would be felt as a lack, were ‘The Silmarillion’ to be published — and not only by readers with a particular liking for them. In a letter written in 1956 <I>(The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien,</I> p. 23.8), soon after the publication of <I>The Lord of the Rings,</I> he said:

I do not think it would have the appeal of the L.R. — no hobbits! Full of mythology, and elvishness, and all that ‘heigh stile’ (as Chaucer might say), which has been so little to the taste of many reviewers.

In ‘The Silmarillion’ the draught is pure and unmixed; and the reader is worlds away from such ‘mediation’, such a deliberate collison (far more than a matter of styles) as that produced in the meeting between King Théoden and Pippin and Merry in the ruins of Isengard:

‘Farewell, my hobbits! May we meet again in my house! There you shall sit beside me and tell me all that your hearts desire: the deeds of your grandsires, as far as you can reckon them . . .’

The hobbits bowed low. ‘So that is the King of Rohan! ’ said<BR>Pippin in an undertone. ‘A fine old fellow. Very polite.’

In the second place,

Where <I>The Silmarillion</I> differs from Tolkien's earlier works is in its refusal to accept novelistic convention. Most novels (including <I>The Hobbit</I> and <I>The Lord of the Rings)</I> pick a character to put in the foreground, like Frodo and Bilbo, and then tell the story as it happens to him. The novelist of course is inventing the story, and so retains omniscience: he can explain, or show, what is ‘really’ happening and contrast it with the limited perception of his character.

There is, then, and very evidently, a question of literary ‘taste’ (or literary ‘habituation’) involved; and also a question of literary ‘disappointment’ — the ‘(mistaken) disappointment in those who wanted a second <I>Lord of the Rings'</I> to which Professor Shippey refers. This has even produced a

