---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P68.
date: 1983-01-01 01:08
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 68
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Bay of Faëry', 'Eldamar', 'Great Lands', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Lost Elves', 'Magic Isles', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Mountains of Valinor', 'Outer Lands', 'Outer Sea(s)', 'Palúrien', 'Shadowy Seas', 'Sun, The', 'Talkamarda', 'Tower of Pearl']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
and wander now, and the Lost Elves sing and dance upon the hills; but beyond their westernmost limits lie the Great Seas, and in that vast water of the West are many smaller lands and isles, ere the lonely seas are found whose waves whisper about the Magic Isles. Farther even than this, and few are the boats of mortal men that have dared so far, are set the Shadowy Seas whereon there float the Twilit Isles and the Tower of Pearl rises pale upon their most western cape; but as yet it was not built, and the Shadowy Seas stretched dark away till their uttermost shore in Eruman.
</p>

Now the Twilit Isles are reckoned the first of the Outer Lands, which are these and Eruman and Valinor. Eruman or Arvalin is to the southward, but the Shadowy Seas run even to the edges of Eldamar to the north; yet must ships sail farther to reach these silver strands, for beyond Eruman stand the Mountains of Valinor in a great ring curving westward, and the Shadowy Seas to north of Eruman bend a vast bay inward, so that waves beat even upon the feet of the great cliffs and the Mountains stand beside the sea. There is Taniquetil glorious to behold, loftiest of all mountains, clad in purest snow, and he looks from the bay's head southward across Eruman and northward across the Bay of Faëry; indeed all the Shadowy Seas, even the sails of ships upon the sunlit waters of the great ocean and the throngs about westward havens in the lands of Men could afterward be seen therefrom, albeit that distance is counted out in unimagined leagues. But as yet the Sun had not risen and the Mountains of Valinor had not been raised, and the vale of Valinor lay wide and cold. Beyond Valinor I have never seen or heard, save that of a surety there are the dark waters of the Outer Seas, that have no tides, and they are very cool and thin, that no boat can sail upon their bosom or fish swim within their depths, save the enchanted fish of Ulmo and his magic car.

Thither is he now gone, but the Gods hold council concerning the words of Melko. It was the rede of Aulë and of his wife Palúrien, for they were the most grieved by the mischief of Melko's turmoils and trusted his promises not at all, that the Gods should not separate as he bid, lest he take it into his heart perchance to attack them singly or do hurt to their possessions. “Is he not,” said they, “more powerful than any one of us save Manwë only? Rather let us build a

