---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P239.
date: 1983-01-01 03:59
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 239
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Fairies', 'Great Lands', 'Ilweran', 'Kalormë', 'Kulullin', 'Manwë', 'Men', 'Oromë']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Aulë, and she gave to Oromë of its golden threads. Then did he dip these in the radiance of Kulullín, but Vána wove them cunningly to a leash immeasurable, and therewith Oromë strode swiftly to the gatherings of Manwë on the mountain.
</p>

Then calling loudly that Manwë and Varda and all their folk come forth he held before their eyes his thong of gold, and they knew not his purpose; but Oromë bid them cast their eyes on that Hill that is called Kalormë standing hugely in the lands most distant from Valinor, and is held most lofty save Taniquetil, yet seemeth therefrom a dim thing fading afar off. Even as they watched Oromë stepped back, and putting all his cunning and his strength thereto he made a mighty cast, and that golden cord sped in a curve through the sky until its noose caught Kalormë's topmost pinnacle. Then by the magic of its making and the cunning of Oromë's hand it stayed a bright golden curve and neither drooped nor sagged; but Oromë fastened its hither end to a pillar in Manwë's courts, and turning to those who gazed upon him said: “Who then listeth to wander in the Great Lands, let him follow me,” and thereat he set foot upon the thong and sped like the wind out over the gulf even to Kalormë, while all upon Taniquetil were silent in amaze. Now did Oromë loosen the thong from Kalormë's peak and run as swiftly back, ravelling it as he came, until once more he stood before Manwë. Then said he: “Lo, O Súlimo Lord of the Airs, a way I have devised whereby any of the Valar of good heart may fare whithersoever they list in the Great Lands; for whither they wish I will cast my slender bridge, and its hither end wilt thou securely guard.”

And of this work of Oromë's came that mighty wonder of the heavens that all men look upon and marvel at, and some fear much, pondering what it may portend. Yet doth that bridge wear a different aspect at different times and in various regions of the Earth, and seldom is it visible to Men and Elves. Now because it glistens most marvellously in the slanting rays of the Sun, and when the rains of heaven moisten it it shines most magically therein and the gold light breaks upon its dripping cords to many hues of purple, green, and red, so do men most often name it the Rainbow, but many other names have they fashioned also, and the fairies call it Ilweran the Bridge of Heaven.

