---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P175.
date: 1983-01-01 02:55
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VI. THE THEFT OF MELKO AND THE DARKENING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 175
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Bruithwir', 'Ered Wethrin', 'Fëanor', 'Fëanorians', 'Formenos']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
indications. The Two Trees stood to the north of the city of Valmar (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p158">p. 158</a>), as they are shown on the map (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83">pp. 83-4</a>); and, again in agreement with the map, the Great Lands and the Outer Lands came very close together in the far North (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p160">p. 160</a>). Most notably, the gap in the Mountains of Valinor shown on the map and which I marked with the letter <I>e</I> is now explained: ‘the low place in the hills' by which Melko and his following passed out of Valinor into Arvalin-Eruman, a gap left by Tulkas and Aulë for their own entry into Valinor at the time of the raising of the mountains (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p160">p. 160</a>).
</p>

Of the next part of this tale ([pp. 161-4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p161)) almost nothing survived. Manwe's lecture to the Noldoli disappeared (but some of its content is briefly expressed at another place in the narrative of <I>The Silmarillion</I>, p. 68: ‘The Noldor began to murmur against [the Valar], and many became filled with pride, forgetting how much of what they had and knew came to them in gift from the Valar’)- Manwë's naming of Fëanor's father Bruithwir by the patronymic <I>go-Maidros</I> is notable: though the name <I>Maidros</I> was subsequently to be that of Fëanor's eldest son, not of his grandfather, it was from the outset associated with the ‘Fëanorians’. There is no trace later of the strange story of the renegade servant of Mandos, who brought Melko's outrageous message to the Valar, and who was hurled to his death from Taniquetil by the irrepressible Tulkas in direct disobedience to Manwë; nor of the sending of Sorontur to Melko as the messenger of the Gods (it is not explained how Sorontur knew where to find him). It is said here that afterwards ‘Sorontur and his folk fared to the Iron Mountains and there abode, watching all that Melko did’. I have noticed in commenting ([p. 120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120)) on <I>The Chaining of Melko</I> that the Iron Mountains, said to be south of Hisilómë (pp. [108]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p108), [127]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p127)), there correspond to the later Mountains of Shadow <I>(Ered Wethrin</I>). On the other hand, in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I> ([p. 197]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p197)) Melko after his escape from Valinor makes himself ‘new dwellings in that region of the North where stand the Iron Mountains very high and terrible to see’; and in the original <I>Tale of Turambar\*</I> it is

<BR>
\* The actual title of this tale is <I>The Tale of Turambar and the Foalókë</I>, the <I>Foalókë</I> being the Dragon.

