---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P361.
date: 1983-01-01 06:01
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 361
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Foreword xix
</p>

in which my father could have considered their publication before he abandoned them; they were experimental and provisional, and the tattered notebooks in which they were written were bundled away and left unlooked at as the years passed. To present them in a printed book has raised many thorny editorial problems. In the first place, the manuscripts are intrinsically very difficult: partly because much of the text was written rapidly in pencil and is now in places extremely hard to read, requiring a magnifying glass and much patience, not always rewarded. But also in some of the <I>Tales</I> my father erased the original pencilled text and wrote a revised version over it in ink — and since at this period he used bound notebooks rather than loose sheets, he was liable to find himself short of space: so detached portions of tales were written in the middle of other tales, and in places a fearsome textual jigsaw puzzle was produced.

Secondly, the <I>Lost Tales</I> were not all written progressively one after the other in the sequence of the narrative; and (inevitably) my father began a new arrangement and revision of the <I>Tales</I> while the work was still in progress. <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> was the first of the tales told to Eriol to be composed, and the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> the second, but the events of those tales take place towards the end of the history; on the other hand the extant texts are later revisions. In some cases nothing earlier than the revised form can now be read; in some both forms are extant for all, or a part, of their length; in some there is only a preliminary draft; and in some there is no formed narrative at all, but only notes and projections. After much experimentation I have found that no method of presentation is feasible but to set out the <I>Tales</I> in the sequence of the narrative.

And finally, as the writing of the <I>Tales</I> progressed, relations were changed, new conceptions entered, and the development of the languages <I>pari passu</I> with the narrative led to continual revision of names.

An edition that takes account of such complexities, as this does, rather than attempt to smooth them artificially away, is liable to be an intricate and crabbed thing, in which the reader is never left alone for a moment. I have attempted to make the <I>Tales</I> themselves accessible and uncluttered while providing a fairly full account, for those who want it, of the

