---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P5.
date: 1983-01-01 00:05
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 5
characters: 
tags: ['Alalminórë', 'Aulë', "Aulë’s kindred", 'Eriol']
description: 
published: true
---

Lindo said to him: ‘Know then that today, or more like 'twas yesterday, you crossed the borders of that region that is called Alalminórë or the “Land of Elms”, which the Gnomes call Gar Lossion, or the “Place of Flowers”. Now this region is accounted the centre of the island, and its fairest realm; but above all the towns and villages of Alalminórë is held Koromas, or as some call it, Kortirion, and this city is the one wherein you now find yourself. Both because it stands at the heart of the island, and from the height of its mighty tower, do those that speak of it with love call it the Citadel of the Island, or of the World itself. More reason is there thereto than even great love, for all the island looks to the dwellers here for wisdom and leadership, for song and lore; and here in a great <I>korin</I> of elms dwells Meril-i-Turinqi. (Now a <I>korin</I> is a great circular hedge, be it of stone or of thorn or even of trees, that encloses a green sward.) Meril comes of the blood of Inwë, whom the Gnomes call Inwith-iel, he that was King of all the Eldar when they dwelt in Kôr. That was in the days before hearing the lament of the world Inwë led them forth to the lands of Men: but those great and sad things and how the Eldar came to this fair and lonely island, maybe I will tell them another time.

‘But after many days Ingil son of Inwë, seeing this place to be very fair, rested here and about him gathered most of the fairest and the wisest, most of the merriest and the kindest, of all the Eldar.<SUP>[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p10)</SUP> Here among those many came my father Valwë who went with Noldorin to find the Gnomes, and the father of Vairë my wife, Tulkastor. He was of Aulë's kindred, but had dwelt long with the Shoreland Pipers, the Solosimpi, and so came among the earliest to the island.

‘Then Ingil builded the great tower<SUP>[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p10)</SUP> and called the town Koromas, or “the Resting of the Exiles of Kôr”, but by reason of that tower it is now mostly called Kortirion.’

Now about this time they drew nigh the end of the meal; then did Lindo fill his cup and after him Vairë and all those in the hall, but to Eriol he said: ‘Now this which we put into our cups is <I>limpë</I>, the drink of the Eldar both young and old, and drinking, our hearts keep youth and our mouths grow full of song, but this drink I may not administer: Turinqi only may give it to those not of the Eldar race, and those that drink must dwell always with the Eldar of the Island until

