---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P261.
date: 1983-01-01 04:21
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 261
characters: 
tags: ['Ailios', 'Battle of Unnumbered Tears', 'the Tale of Earendel', 'Eriol', 'Gilfanon', 'The Fall of Gondolin', 'Great Lands', 'Kôr', 'Limpë', 'Lindo', 'Men', 'Necklace of the Dwarves, Tale of the', 'Noldoli', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Sun, The', 'Tavrobel', 'the Tale of Tinúviel', 'Turuhalmë', 'the Tale of Turambar']
description: 
published: true
---

It is clear that no more was written. If it had been completed it would have led into the opening of <I>Turambar</I> cited above (‘When then Ailios had spoken his fill . . .’); and it would have been central to the history of the Great Lands, telling of the coming of the Noldoli from Valinor, the Awakening of Men, and the Battle of Unnumbered Tears.

The text just described, linking <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> to Ailios’ unwritten tale, was not struck out, and my father later wrote on it: ‘To come after the Tale of Earendel and before Eriol fares to Tavrobel — after Tavrobel he drinks of <I>limpë</I>.’ This is puzzling, since he cannot have intended the story of the Coming of Men to follow that of Earendel; but it may be that he intended only to use the substance of this short text, describing the Turuhalmë ceremonies, without its ending.

However this may be, he devised a new framework for the telling of these tales, though he did not carry it through, and the revised account of the arranging of the next tale-telling has appeared in the <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>, where after Gilfanon's interruption ([p. 211]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p211)) it was agreed that three nights after that on which <I>The Sun and Moon</I> and <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> were told by Lindo and Vairë there should be a more ceremonial occasion, on which Gilfanon should relate ‘the travail of the Noldoli and the coming of Mankind’.

Gilfanon's tale follows on, with consecutive page-numbers, from the second version of Vairë's tale of <I>The Hiding of Valinor;</I> but Gilfanon here tells it on the night following, not three days later. Unhappily Gilfanon was scarcely better served than Ailios had been, for if Ailios scarcely got started Gilfanon stops abruptly after a very few pages. What there is of his tale is very hastily written in pencil, and it is quite clear that it ends where it does because my father wrote no more of it. It was here that my father abandoned the <I>Lost Tales —</I> or, more accurately, abandoned those that still waited to be written; and the effects of this withdrawal never ceased to be felt throughout the history of ‘The Silmarillion’. The major stories to follow Gilfanon's, those of Beren and Tinúviel, Turin Turambar, the Fall of Gondolin, and the Necklace of the Dwarves, had been written and (in the first three cases) rewritten; and the last of these was to lead on to

