---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P283.
date: 1983-01-01 04:43
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 283
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 283
</p>

like the legends, were a continuous evolution, expansion, and refinement. But the historical status and relationship of the two languages as they were conceived at this time was radically changed later on: see p. 47-8.

The arrangement of the material has proved difficult, and indeed without a better understanding of relationships and their shifting formulations could scarcely be made satisfactory. The system I have adopted is to give etymologically-connected groups of words, in both Qenya and Gnomish, under an important name that contains one of them; to this entry other occurrences of a word in the group are referred (e.g. <I>glor-</I> in <I>Glorvent, Bráglorin</I> is referred to the entry <I>Laurelin,</I> where the etymological associations of Qenya <I>laurë</I> ‘gold’ are given).* Every name in the <I>Lost Tales</I> of this volume is given — that is, if any contemporary etymological information is to be found concerning it: any name not found in the following list is either quite opaque to me, or at least cannot be identified with any certainty. Rejected names are also included, on the same basis, but are given under the names that replaced them (e.g. <I>Dor Uswen</I> under <I>Dor Faid-wen).</I>

The list of secondary names of the Valar which is written out on blank facing pages in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar</I> (see p. 98) is referred to as ‘the Valar name-list’. The sign < is used only where it is used in the Gnomish dictionary, as <I>alfa < alchwa,</I> meaning that the one was historically derived from the other: it is not used in this Appendix to refer to alterations made by my father in the dictionaries themselves.

<B>Ainur   </B>Among the original entries in QL are <I>ainu</I> ‘a pagan god’ and aim ‘a pagan goddess’, together with <I>áye</I> ‘hail! ’ and <I>Ainatar</I> ‘Ilúvatar, God’. (Of course no one <I>within</I> the context of the mythology can call the Ainur ‘pagan’.)

* Later Quenya and Sindarin forms are only exceptionally mentioned. For such words see the vocabularies given in <I>An Introduction to Elvish,</I> ed. J. Allan, Bran's Head Books, 1978; also the Appendix to <I>The Silmarillion.</I>

