---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P151.
date: 1983-01-01 02:31
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 151
characters: 
tags: ['Aryador', 'A Song of Aryador', 'Dor Lómin', 'Fëanor', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes']
description: 
published: true
---

Thus the rhapsodic account at the end of this tale of the making of gems out of ‘magic’ materials — starlight, and <I>ilwë</I>, dews and petals, glassy substances dyed with the juice of flowers — was abandoned, and the Noldor became miners, skilful indeed, but mining only what was there to be found in the rocks of Valinor. On the other hand, in an earlier passage in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 39), the old idea is retained: ‘The Noldor also it was who first achieved the making of gems.’ It need not be said that everything was to be gained by the discretion of the later writing; in this early narrative the Silmarils are not strongly marked out from the accumulated wonder of all the rest of the gems of the Noldoli's making.

Features that remained are the generosity of the Noldor in the giving of their gems and the scattering of them on the shores (cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 61: ‘Many jewels the Noldor gave them [the Teleri], opals and diamonds and pale crystals, which they strewed upon the shores and scattered in the pools'); the pearls that the Teleri got from the sea <I>(ibid.);</I> the sapphires that the Noldar gave to Manwë (‘His sceptre was of sapphire, which the Noldor wrought for him’, <I>ibid</I>. p. 40); and, of course, Fëanor as the maker of the Silmarils — although, as will be seen in the next tale, Fëanor was not yet the son of Finwë (Nólemë).

I conclude this commentary with another early poem that bears upon the matter of this tale. It is said in the tale ([p. 127]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p127)) that Men in Hisilómë feared the Lost Elves, calling them the Shadow Folk, and that their name for the land was <I>Aryador</I>. The meaning of this is given in the early Gnomish word-list as ‘land or place of shadow’ (cf. the meanings of <I>Hisilómë</I> and <I>Dor Lómin</I>, [p. 120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120)).

The poem is called <I>A Song of Aryador</I>, and is extant in two copies; according to notes on these it was written in an army camp near Lichfield on September 12th, 1915. It was never, to my knowledge, printed. The first copy, in manuscript, has the title also in Old English: <I>Án léoþ Eargedores;</I> the second, in typescript, has virtually no differences in the text, but it may be noted that the first word of the third verse, ‘She’, is an emendation from ‘He’ in both copies.

