---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P40. II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR
date: 1983-01-01 00:40
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 40
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

In another notebook identical to that in which <I>The Cottage of Lost Play </I>was written out by my mother, there is a text in ink in my father's hand (and all the other texts of the <I>Lost Tales </I>are in his hand, save for a fair copy of <I>The Fall of Gondolin\*) </I>entitled: <I>Link between Cottage of Lost Play and (Tale 2) Music of Ainur. </I>This follows on directly from Vairë's last words to Eriol on p. 10, and in turn links on directly to <I>The Music of the Ainur </I>(in a third notebook identical to the other two). The only indication of date for the <I>Link </I>and the <I>Music </I>(which were, I think, written at the same time) is a letter of my father's of July 1964 <I>(Letters </I>p. 345), in which he said that while in Oxford ‘employed on the staff of the then still incomplete great Dictionary’ he ‘wrote a cosmogonical myth, “The Music of the Ainur” ’. He took up the post on the Oxford Dictionary in November 1918 and relinquished it in the spring of 1920 <I>(Biography </I>pp. 99, 102). If his recollection was correct, and there is no evidence to set against it, some two years or more elapsed between <I>The Cottage of Lost Play </I>and <I>The Music of the Ainur.</I>

The <I>Link </I>between the two exists in only one version, for the text in ink was written over a draft in pencil that was wholly erased. In this case I follow the <I>Link </I>with a brief commentary, before giving <I>The Music of the Ainur.</I>

‘But,’ said Eriol, ‘still are there many things that remain

<BR>
\* The actual title of this tale is <I>Tuor and the Exiles of Gondolin, </I>but<BR>my father referred to it as <I>The Fall of Gondolin </I>and I do likewise.

