---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P13.
date: 1983-01-01 00:13
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 13
characters: 
tags: ['Aman', 'Beowulf', 'Britain', 'England, English', 'Eoh', 'Eriol', 'Hengest', 'Horsa', 'Lonely Island', 'Lonely Isle', 'Middle-earth', 'Old English', 'Ottor Wǽfre', 'Oxford', 'Silmarillion, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
ruin of Elvish Tol Eressëa. The element of ancient English history or ‘historical legend’ was at first not merely a framework, isolated from the great tales that afterwards constituted ‘The Silmarillion’, but an integral part of their ending. The elucidation of all this (so far as elucidation is possible) must necessarily be postponed to the end of the <I>Tales;</I> but here something at least must be said of the history of Eriol up to the time of his coming to Tol Eressëa, and of the original significance of the Lonely Isle.
</p>

The ‘Eriol-story’ is in fact among the knottiest and most obscure matters in the whole history of Middle-earth and Aman. My father abandoned the writing of the <I>Lost Tales</I> before he reached their end, and when he abandoned them he had also abandoned his original ideas for their conclusion. Those ideas can indeed be discerned from his notes; but the notes were for the most part pencilled at furious speed, the writing now rubbed and faint and in places after long study scarcely decipherable, on little slips of paper, disordered and dateless, or in a little notebook in which, during the years when he was composing the <I>Lost Tales</I>, he jotted down thoughts and suggestions (see p. 191). The common form of these notes on the ‘Eriol’ or ‘English’ element is that of short outlines, in which salient narrative features, often without clear connection between them, are set down in the manner of a list; and they vary constantly among themselves.

In what must be, at any rate, among the very earliest of these outlines, found in this little pocket-book, and headed ‘Story of Eriol's Life’, the mariner who came to Tol Eressëa is brought into relation with the tradition of the invasion of Britain by Hengest and Horsa in the fifth century A.D. This was a matter to which my father gave much time and thought; he lectured on it at Oxford and developed certain original theories, especially in connection with the appearance of Hengest in <I>Beowulf.\*</I>

From these jottings we learn that Eriol's original name was <I>Ottor</I>, but that he called himself <I>Wǽfre</I> (an Old English word meaning ‘restless, wandering’) and lived a life on the waters. His father was named <I>Eoh</I> (a word of the

<br>
\* J. R. R. Tolkien, <I>Finn and Hengest</I>, ed. Alan Bliss, 1982.

