---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P298. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:58
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 298
characters: ['Lúmin', 'Luvier', 'Makar', 'Mandos', 'Mánir']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
‘to slumber’, <I>lorda</I> ‘drowsy, slumbrous’; also <I>olor, olórë</I> ‘dream,’, <I>olórëa</I> ‘dreamy’. (For much later formulation of words from this root, including <I>Olórin</I> (Gandalf), see <I>Unfinished Tales</I> p. 396.) In GL are given <I>lûr</I> ‘slumber’, <I>Lúriel</I> changed to Lúrin=Qenya <I>Lórien</I>, and also <I>olm, oloth, olor</I> ‘dream, apparition, vision’, <I>oltha</I> ‘appear as an apparition’. Cf. <I>Eriol, Olofantur, Olórë Mallë</I>.
</p>

<B>Lúmin</B>  (Rejected name for Aluin ‘Time’, [p. 251]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p251).) GL has <I>Wan</I> ‘time’, <I>luin</I> ‘gone, past’, <I>lu</I> ‘occasion, time’, <I>lûtha</I> ‘pass (of time), come to pass’. <I>Aluin</I> perhaps belongs here also.

<B>Luvier</B>   I have translated this word on the ‘World-Ship’ drawing as ‘Clouds' ([p. 88]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p88)) on the basis of words in QL derived from the root LUVU: <I>luvu-</I> ‘lower, brood’, <I>lumbo</I> ‘dark lowering cloud’, <I>lúrë</I> ‘dark weather’, <I>lúrëa</I> ‘dark, overcast’. GL has <I>lum</I> ‘cloud’, <I>lumbri</I> ‘foul weather’, <I>lumbrin, lumba</I> ‘vercast’, <I>lur-</I> ‘hang, lower, of clouds'.

<B>Makar</B>   Given in QL (‘God of battle’) under root MAKA, with <I>mak-</I> ‘slay’, <I>makil</I> ‘sword’. His Gnomish name is <I>Magron</I> or <I>Magorn</I>, with related words <I>mactha-</I> ‘slay’, <I>macha</I> ‘slaughter, battle’, <I>magli</I> ‘a great sword’. See <I>[Meássë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Meássë)</I>.

In the Valar name-list Makar is called also <I>Ramandor</I>. This was the original name of the King of the Eagles in <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I>, replaced by <I>Sorontur</I>. In QL under root RAMA <I>(rama-</I> ‘to shout’, <I>rambë</I> ‘a shout’, <I>ran</I> ‘noise’) <I>Ramandor</I> is translated ‘the Shouter, =Makar'.

<B>Mandos</B>  This name is defined in QL as ‘the halls of Vê and Fui (hell)’, and a comparison made with <I>-mandu</I> in <I>An-gamandu</I> ‘Hells of Iron’. In GL is the following entry: <I>‘Bandoth</I> [later changed to <I>Bannoth]</I> (cf. <I>Ang-band)—</I>Mandos (1) the region of the waiting souls of the dead (2) the God who judged the dead Elves and Gnomes (3) improperly used exclusively of his hall, properly called G<I>wê</I> [changed to <I>Gwî]</I> or <I>Ingwi’</I>. For this distinction between the region <I>Mandos</I>, in which dwelt the death-gods, and their halls <I>Vê</I> and <I>Fui</I>, see pp. [77]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p77), [94-5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p94).

<B>Mánir</B>  Not in QL; but GL has ‘móna or <I>móni:</I> the spirits of the air, children of Manweg’. Further relations are

