---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P34.
date: 1983-01-01 00:34
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 34
characters: 
glossaries: ['flittermice']
tags: ['Alalminor', 'Edain', 'Kortirion', 'Land of Elms', 'Kortirion among the Trees', 'The Trees of Kortirion']
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>6</SUB> The River Gliding leaves these inland realms

<SUB>7</SUB> And slips between long meadows to the Sea,

<SUB>8</SUB> Still bearing down by weir and murmuring fall

<SUB>9</SUB> One day and then another to the Sea;

<SUB>10</SUB> And slowly thither many days have gone

<SUB>11</SUB> Since first the Edain built Kortirion.

<SUB>12</SUB> Kortirion! Upon your island hill

<SUB>13</SUB> With winding streets, and alleys shadow-walled

<SUB>14</SUB> Where even now the peacocks pace in drill

<SUB>15</SUB> Majestic, sapphirine and emerald,

<SUB>16</SUB> Once long ago amid this sleeping land

<SUB>17</SUB> Of silver rain, where still year-laden stand

<SUB>18</SUB> In unforgetful earth the rooted trees

<SUB>19</SUB> That cast long shadows in the bygone noon,

<SUB>20</SUB> And whispered in the swiftly passing breeze,

<SUB>21</SUB> Once long ago, Queen of the Land of Elms,

<SUB>22</SUB> High City were you of the Inland Realms.

<SUB>23</SUB> Your trees in summer you remember still:

<SUB>24</SUB> The willow by the spring, the beech on hill;

<SUB>25</SUB> The rainy poplars, and the frowning yews

<SUB>26</SUB> Within your aged courts that muse

<SUB>27</SUB> In sombre splendour all the day,

<SUB>28</SUB> Until the firstling star comes glimmering,

<SUB>29</SUB> And flittermice go by on silent wing;

<SUB>30</SUB> Until the white moon slowly climbing sees

<SUB>31</SUB> In shadow-fields the sleep-enchanted trees

<SUB>32</SUB> Night-mantled all in silver-grey.

<SUB>33</SUB> Alalminor! Here was your citadel,

<SUB>34</SUB> Ere bannered summer from his fortress fell;

<SUB>35</SUB> About you stood arrayed your host of elms:

<SUB>36</SUB> Green was their armour, tall and green their helms,

<SUB>37</SUB> High lords and captains of the trees.

<SUB>38</SUB> But summer wanes. Behold, Kortirion!

<SUB>39</SUB> The elms their full sail now have crowded on

<SUB>40</SUB> Ready to the winds, like masts amid the vale

<SUB>41</SUB> Of mighty ships too soon, too soon, to sail

<SUB>42</SUB> To other days beyond these sunlit seas.

