---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P268.
date: 1983-01-01 04:28
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 268
characters: 
tags: ['Bëor', 'Dark Elves', 'Dwarves', 'Eldar', 'Elmir', 'Ermon', 'Fangli', 'Fay(s)', 'Fúkil', 'Haven of the Sun', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'Ilkorin tongue', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Murmenalda', 'Nauglath']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Haven. Now Men came forth from Murmenalda as ‘a host of sleepy children’.
</p>

(In the tale of <I>The Hiding of Valinor</I> it was long after the first rising of the Sunship from Valinor that its Haven in the East was built; see [pp. 241-2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p242). It is interesting that the first Men, Ermon and Elmir, were woken by Nuin before the first rising of the Sun, and although it was known to Túvo that Men were ‘waiting for light’ no connection is made between Nuin's act and the Sunrise. But of course one cannot judge the inner tenor of the narrative from such summaries. It is notable also that whereas the tongue of the Elves, in origin one and the same, was a direct gift of Ilúvatar (p. 262), Men were born into the world without language and received it from the instruction of an Ilkorin. Cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I>, p. 141: ‘It is said also that these Men [the people of Bëor] had long had dealings with the Dark Elves east of the mountains, and from them had learned much of their speech; and since all the languages of the Quendi were of one origin, the language of Bëor and his folk resembled the Elven-tongue in many words and devices. ’)

At this point in the story the agents of Melko appear, the Úvanimor, ‘bred in the earth’ by him (Úvanimor, ‘who are monsters, giants, and ogres', have been mentioned in an earlier tale, [pp. 75-6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p75)); and Túvo protected Men and Elves from them and from ‘evil fays'. A makes mention of Orcs besides.

A servant of Melko named ‘Fúkil or Fangli’ entered the world, and coming among Men perverted them, so that they fell treacherously upon the Ilkorins; there followed the Battle of Palisor, in which the people of Ermon fought beside Nuin. According to A ‘the fays and those Men that aided them were defeated’, but B calls it an ‘undecided battle’; and the Men corrupted by Fangli fled away and became ‘wild and savage tribes', worshipping Fangli and Melko. Thereafter (in A only) Palisor was possessed by ‘Fangli and his hosts of Nauglath (or Dwarves)’. (In the early writings the Dwarves are always portrayed as an evil people.)

From this outline it is seen that the corruption of certain Men in the beginning of their days by the agency of Melko was a feature of the earliest phase of the mythology; but of all the story here sketched there is no more than a hint or suggestion, at most, in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 141): “A darkness

