---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P92.
date: 1983-01-01 01:32
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 92
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of twelve hours, not as later seven;* and the preparations of the Valar for the birth of the Trees, with all their detail of physical ‘magic’, were afterwards abandoned. The two great ‘cauldrons' Kulullin and Silindrin survived in the ‘great vats like shining lakes' in which Varda hoarded ‘the dews of Tel-perion and the rain that fell from Laurelin’ <I>(ibid.</I> p. 39), though the names disappeared, as did the need to ‘water’ the Trees with the light gathered in the vats or cauldrons — or at any rate it is not mentioned later. Urwen (‘Sun-maiden’) was the forebear of Arien, Maia of the Sun; and Tilion, steersman of the Moon in <I>The Silmarillion,</I> who ‘lay in dreams by the pools of Estë [Lórien's wife], in Telperion's flickering beams', perhaps owes something to the figure of Silmo, whom Lórien loved.
</p>

As I noted earlier, ‘in the later evolution of the myths Vána sank down in relation to Nienna’, and here it is Vána and (Yavanna) Palúrien who are the midwives of the birth of the Trees, not as afterwards Yavanna and Nienna.

As regards the names of the Trees, <I>Silpion</I> was for long the name of the White Tree; <I>Telperion</I> did not appear till long after, and even then <I>Silpion</I> was retained and is mentioned in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 38) as one of its names. <I>Laurelin</I> goes back to the beginning and was never changed, but its other name in the <I>Lost Tales, Lindeloksë</I> and other similar forms, was not retained.

(v) The Dwellings of the Valar (pp. 74 ff.)

This account of the mansions of the Valar was very largely lost in the subsequent versions. In the published work nothing is told of Manwë's dwelling, save the bare fact that his halls were ‘above the everlasting snow, upon Oiolossë, the uttermost tower of Taniquetil’ ([p. 26]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p26)). Here now appears Sorontur King of Eagles, a visitor to Manwë's halls (cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 110: ‘For Manwë to whom all birds are dear,

<BR>
\* Palúrien's words ([p. 73]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p73)) ‘This tree, <I>when the twelve hours of its fullest light are past,</I> will wane again’ seem to imply a longer space than twelve hours; but probably the period of waning was not allowed for. In an annotated list of names to the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> it is said that Silpion lit all Valinor with silver light ‘for half the twenty-four hours'.

