---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P96. Habbanan beneath the Stars
date: 1983-01-01 01:36
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 96
characters: 
tags: ["poem"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
dictionary also makes it clear that the word <I>Mánir</I> was related to Gnomish <I>manos</I>, defined as ‘a spirit that has gone to the Valar or to Erumáni’, and <I>mani</I> ‘good, holy’. The significance of these etymological connections is very unclear.
</p>

But there is also a very early poem on the subject of this region. This according to my father's notes, was written at Brocton Camp, Staffordshire, in December 1915 or at Étaples in June 1916; and it is entitled <I>Habbanan beneath the Stars</I>. In one of the three texts (in which there are no variants) there is a title in Old English: <I>þā gebletsode</I> ['blessed'] <I>felda under þām steorrum</I>, and in two of them <I>Habbanan</I> in the title was emended to <I>Eruman;</I> in the third <I>Eruman</I> stood from the first. The poem is preceded by a short prose preamble.

<I>Habbanan beneath the Stars</I>

Now Habbanan is that region where one draws nigh to the places that are not of Men. There is the air very sweet and the sky very great by reason of the broadness of the Earth.

<SUB>1</SUB> In Habbanan beneath the skies

<SUB>2</SUB> Where all roads end however long

<SUB>3</SUB> There is a sound of faint guitars

<SUB>4</SUB> And distant echoes of a song,

<SUB>5</SUB> For there men gather into rings

<SUB>6</SUB> Round their red fires while one voice sings —

<SUB>7</SUB> And all about is night.

<SUB>8</SUB> Not night as ours, unhappy folk,

<SUB>9</SUB> Where nigh the Earth in hazy bars,

<SUB>10</SUB> A mist about the springing of the stars,

<SUB>11</SUB> There trails a thin and wandering smoke

<SUB>12</SUB> Obscuring with its veil half-seen

<SUB>13</SUB> The great abysmal still Serene.

<SUB>14</SUB> A globe of dark glass faceted with light

<SUB>15</SUB> Wherein the splendid winds have dusky flight;

<SUB>16</SUB> Untrodden spaces of an odorous plain

<SUB>17</SUB> That watches for the moon that long has lain

<SUB>18</SUB> And caught the meteors' fiery rain —

<SUB>19</SUB> Such there is night.

