---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P91.
date: 1983-01-01 01:31
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 91
characters: 
tags: ['Arvalin', 'Eruman', 'Fingolfin', 'Helcar', 'Helkar', 'Illuin', 'Lamps, The', 'Laurelin', 'Mountains of Valinor']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
story of his deceitful making of the pillars out of the ice survived into the versions of the 1930s).
</p>

Later, it was the Lamps themselves that were named (ultimately, after intervening forms had been devised and discarded, <I>Illuin</I> the northern Lamp and <I>Ormal</I> the southern). In <I>The Silmarillion</I> Ringil (containing <I>ring</I> ‘cold’) survived only as the name of Fingolfin's sword, but Helcar is that of, the Inland Sea which ‘stood where aforetime the roots of the mountain of Illuin had been’ ([p. 49]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p49)). In the present tale Hel-kar was the name of the southern, not the northern, pillar. Now <I>helkar</I> meant ‘utter cold’ (see the Appendix on Names), which shows that Helkar was originally in the extreme south (as it is in one of the two positions given for it on the little map, [p. 83]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83)), just as Ringil was in the extreme north. In the tale there is no mention of the formation of Inland Seas at the fall of the Lamps; this idea appeared later, but it seems virtually certain that it arose from the story of the melting pillars of ice.

There is no later reference to the building of the Mountains of Valinor from great rocks gathered in Eruman / Arvalin, so that the region became flat and stoneless.

(iv) The Two Trees ([pp. 72-4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p72))

This earliest account of the uprising of the Two Trees illuminates some elements of later versions more concentrated in expression. The enduring feature that the ground beneath Silpion (Telperion) was ‘dappled with the shadows of his fluttering leaves' <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 38) is seen to have had its origin in the ‘throbbing of the tree's heart’. The conception of light as a liquid substance that ‘splashed upon the ground’, that ran in rivers and was poured in cauldrons, though not lost in the published work (pp. 38-9), is here more strongly and physically expressed. Some features were never changed, as the clustered flowers of Laurelin and the shining edges of its leaves.

On the other hand there are notable differences between this and the later accounts: above all perhaps that Laurelin was in origin the Eldar Tree. The Two Trees had here periods

