---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P36.
date: 1983-01-01 00:36
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 36
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>74</SUB> Round tapers in the windless air.

<SUB>75</SUB> Lammas is gone. The Harvest-moon has waned.

<SUB>76</SUB> Summer is dying that so briefly reigned.

<SUB>77</SUB> Now the proud elms at last begin to quail,

<SUB>78</SUB> Their leaves uncounted tremble and grow pale,

<SUB>79</SUB> Seeing afar the icy spears

<SUB>80</SUB> Of winter march to battle with the sun.

<SUB>81</SUB> When bright All-Hallows fades, their day is done,

<SUB>82</SUB> And borne on wings of amber wan they fly

<SUB>83</SUB> In heedless winds beneath the sullen sky,

<SUB>84</SUB> And fall like dying birds upon the meres.

<BR>

<I><B>III</B>. Hrívion\*</I>

<SUB>85</SUB> Alas! Kortirion, Queen of Elms, alas!

<SUB>86</SUB> This season best befits your ancient town

<SUB>87</SUB> With echoing voices sad that slowly pass,

<SUB>88</SUB> Winding with waning music faintly down

<SUB>89</SUB> The paths of stranded mist. O fading time,

<SUB>90</SUB> When morning rises late all hoar with rime,

<SUB>91</SUB> And early shadows veil the distant woods!

<SUB>92</SUB> Unseen the Elves go by, their shining hair

<SUB>93</SUB> They cloak in twilight under secret hoods

<SUB>94</SUB> Of grey, their dusk-blue mantles gird with bands

<SUB>95</SUB> Of frosted starlight sewn by silver hands.

<SUB>96</SUB> At night they dance beneath the roofless sky,

<SUB>97</SUB> When naked elms entwine in branching lace

<SUB>98</SUB> The Seven Stars, and through the boughs the eye

<SUB>99</SUB> Stares down cold-gleaming in the high moon's face.

<SUB>100</SUB> O Elder Kindred, fair immortal folk!

<SUB>101</SUB> You sing now ancient songs that once awoke

<SUB>102</SUB> Under primeval stars before the Dawn;

<SUB>103</SUB> You dance like shimmering shadows in the wind,

<SUB>104</SUB> As once you danced upon the shining lawn

<SUB>105</SUB> Of Elvenhome, before we were, before

<BR>
\* Cf. <I>hrívë </I>‘winter’, <I>The Lord of the Rings, </I>Appendix D.

