---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P16.
date: 1983-01-01 00:16
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 16
characters: 
tags: ['England, English', 'Eriol', 'Fairies', 'Faring Forth', 'Gondolin', 'Great Haywood', 'Great Lands', 'Ingil', 'Inwë', 'Kôr', 'Koromas', 'Kortirion', 'Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien', 'Kortirion among the Trees', 'Magic Sun', 'Lonely Island', 'Lonely Isle', 'The Lonely Isle', 'Melko', 'Men']
description: 
published: true
---

None of this is explicit in the written <I>Tales</I>, and is only found in notes independent of them; but it seems certain that it was still present when <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> was written (and indeed, as I shall try to show later, underlies all the <I>Tales</I>). The fair copy that my mother made of it was dated February 1917. From 1913 until her marriage in March 1916 she lived in Warwick and my father visited her there from Oxford; after their marriage she lived for a while at Great Haywood (east of Stafford), since it was near the camp where my father was stationed, and after his return from France he was at Great Haywood in the winter of 1916-17. Thus the identification of Tol Eressëan Tavrobel with Great Haywood cannot be earlier than 1916, and the fair copy of <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> (and quite possibly the original composition of it) was actually done there.

In November 1915 my father wrote a poem entitled <I>Kor-tirion among the Trees</I> which was dedicated to Warwick.\* To the first fair copy of the poem there is appended a prose introduction, as follows:

Now on a time the fairies dwelt in the Lonely Isle after the great wars with Melko and the ruin of Gondolin; and they builded a fair city amidmost of that island, and it was girt with trees. Now this city they called Kortirion, both in memory of their ancient dwelling of Kôr in Valinor, and because this city stood also upon a hill and had a great tower tall and grey that Ingil son of Inwë their lord let raise.

Very beautiful was Kortirion and the fairies loved it, and it became rich in song and poesy and the light of laughter; but on a time the great Faring Forth was made, and the fairies had rekindled once more the Magic Sun of Valinor but for the treason and faint hearts of Men. But so it is that the Magic Sun is dead and the Lonely Isle drawn back unto the confines of the Great Lands, and the fairies are scattered through all the wide unfriendly pathways of the world; and now Men dwell even on this faded isle, and care nought

<br>
\* This poem is given in three different texts, on pp. 25-37. — A poem written at Étaples in the Pas de Calais in June 1916 and entitled ‘The Lonely Isle’ is explicitly addressed to England. See <I>Letters</I>, p. 437, note 4 to letter 43.

