---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P196.
date: 1983-01-01 03:16
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 196
characters: 
tags: ['Amnor', 'Aulë', 'Eriol', 'Fëanor', 'Gilfanon', 'Gnomes', 'the Haven', 'Kinslaughter', 'Kinslaying', 'Lindo', 'Alqaluntë', 'Mandos', 'Moon, The', 'Noldoli', 'Solosimpi', 'Stars', 'Sun, The', 'Teleri', 'Two Trees', 'Varda']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
more of the splendour of the Gods and their works, a theme that never wearies him!’
</p>

At that was Lindo well-pleased, for of a truth he loved to tell such tales and sought often an occasion for recalling them, and said he: Then will I tell the story of the Sun and Moon and of the Stars, that Eriol may hearken to his desire,’ and Eriol was well pleased, but Gilfanon said: ‘Speak on, my Lindo — yet lengthen not the tale for ever. ’

Then did Lindo lift up his voice,<SUP>[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p219)</SUP> and it was the most pleasant to hearken to of all tale-tellers, and he said:\*

‘A tale I tell of that time of the first flight of the Gnomes, and behold they are but newly fled. Now came that grievous news to the Gods and the other Elves, and at first none believed. Nonetheless the tidings came still unto them, and by many different messengers. Some were of the Teleri, who had heard the speech of Fëanor in the square of Kôr and had seen the Noldoli depart thence with all the goods they might convey; others were of the Solosimpi, and these brought the dire tidings of the swanships’ rape and the dread kinslaughter of the Haven, and the blood that lay on the white shores of Alqaluntë.

Lastly came some hotfoot from Mandos who had gazed upon that sad throng nigh the strands of Amnor, and the Gods knew that the Gnomes were far abroad, and Varda and all the Elves wept, for now seemed the darkness black indeed and that more than the outward light of the fair Trees was slain.

Strange is to tell that albeit Aulë had loved the Noldoli above all the Elves and had taught them all they knew and given them great stores of wealth, now was his heart most turned against them, for he deemed them ingrate in that they had bidden him no farewell, and for their ill deeds among the Solosimpi he was grieved to the heart. “Speak not,” said he, “the name of the Noldoli ever again unto me,” and albeit he gave still his love to those few faithful Gnomes who remained still about his halls, yet did he name them thereafter “Eldar”.

But the Teleri and the Solosimpi having wept at first, when the onslaught of the Haven became known to all dried their

<BR>
\* Written in the margin: ‘Beginning of The Sun and Moon’.

