---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P44.
date: 1983-01-01 00:44
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 44
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Bronweg', 'Earendel', 'Eldar', 'Elfin', 'Eriol', 'language of the Gods', 'Great Lands', 'Ilúvatar', 'Inwir', 'Island Elves', 'Kôr', 'Littleheart', 'lost bands', 'Manwë', 'Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva', 'Meril-i-Turinqi', 'Noldoli', 'Rúmil', 'Solosimpi', 'Tale-fire', 'Teleri', 'Tol Eressëa', 'Tuor', 'Voronwë']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
deep sundering of their speech. Akin nonetheless be assuredly Gnome-speech and Elfin of the Eldar, as my lore teacheth me — but lo! I weary you again. Never have I found another ear yet in the world that grew not tired ere long of such discourse. “Tongues and speeches,” they will say, “one is enough for me” — and thus said Littleheart the Gong-warden once upon a time: “Gnome-speech,” said he, “is enough for me — did not that one Earendel and Tuor and Bronweg my father (that mincingly ye miscall Voronwë) speak it and no other?” Yet he had to learn the Elfin in the end, or be doomed either to silence or to leave Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva — and neither fate would his heart suffer. Lo! now he is chirping Eldar like a lady of the Inwir, even Meril-i-Turinqi our queen herself — Manwë care for her. But even these be not all — there is beside the secret tongue in which the Eldar wrote many poesies and books of wisdom and histories of old and earliest things, and yet speak not. This tongue do only the Valar use in their high counsels, and not many of the Eldar of these days may read it or solve its characters. Much of it I learnt in Kôr, a lifetime gone, of the goodness of Aulë, and thereby I know many matters: very many matters.’
</p>

‘Then,’ quoth Eriol, ‘maybe you can tell me of things that I greatly desire to know since the words by the Tale-fire yester-eve. Who be the Valar — Manwë, Aulë, and the ones ye name — and wherefore came ye Eldar from that home of loveliness in Valinor?’

Now came those two to a green arbour and the sun was up and warm, and the birds sang mightily, but the lawns were spread with gold. Then Rúmil sat upon a seat there of carven stone grown with moss, and said he: ‘Very mighty are the things that you ask, and their true answer delves beyond the uttermost confines of the wastes of time, whither even the sight of Rúmil the aged of the Noldoli may not see; and all the tales of the Valar and the Elves are so knit together that one may scarce expound any one without needing to set forth the whole of their great history. ’

‘Yet,’ said Eriol, ‘tell me, Rúmil, I beg, some of what you know even of the first beginnings, that I may begin to understand those things that are told me in this isle.’

But Rúmil said: ‘Ilúvatar was the first beginning, and beyond

