---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P292.
date: 1983-01-01 04:52
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 292
characters: ["Haloisi Velikë", "Helkar", "Helkaraksë", "Heskil", "Hisildi", "Hisilómë", "Ilinsor", "Ilkorin", "Ilsaluntë"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<B>Haloisi Velikë</B> (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, [p. 87]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p87)) In QL <I>haloisi</I> ‘the sea (in storm)’ is given under a root HALA, with other derivatives <I>haloitë</I> ‘leaping’, <I>halta-</I> ‘to leap’.

To Qenya <I>velikë</I> ‘great’ corresponds Gnomish <I>beleg</I> ‘mighty, great’ (as in Beleg the Bowman in the tale of Turin).

<B>Helkar</B>   QL under root HELE has <I>helkë</I> ‘ice’, <I>helka</I> ‘ice-cold’, <I>hilkin</I> ‘it freezes’, <I>halkin</I> ‘frozen’. GL has <I>helc, heleg</I> ‘ice’, <I>hel-</I> ‘freeze’, <I>heloth</I> ‘frost’, etc., and <I>helcor</I> ‘arctic cold, utter frost’; this last was changed to read <I>helchor</I> ‘antarctic cold, utter frost of the South (the pillar of the Southern Lamp). Q. <I>Helkar.’</I>

<B>Helkaraksë</B>  See <I>[Helkar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Helkar), Helkaraksë</I> is not in either dictionary and the second element is obscure, unless it is to be connected with Q. <I>aksa</I> ‘waterfall’ (see <I>[Asgon]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Asgon</I>)).

<B>Heskil</B>   The root HESE ‘winter’ in QL has derivatives <I>Heskil</I> ‘winter one’, <I>Hesin</I> ‘winter’, <I>hessa</I> ‘dead, withered’, <I>hesta-</I> ‘wither’. In GL are <I>Hess</I> ‘winter, especially as name of Fuil’, and <I>hesc</I> ‘withered, dead; chill’. For another name of Fui Nienna see <I>[Vailimo]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Vailimo</I>).

<B>Hisildi</B>    See <I>[Hisilómë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Hisilómë</I>).

<B>Hisilómë</B>  Under the root HISI QL gives <I>hisë, histë</I> ‘dusk’, <I>Hisinan</I> ‘Land of Twilight’. For the translation of <I>Hisilómë</I> as ‘Shadowy Twilights' see [p. 120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120).

The root LOMO has many derivatives, as <I>lómë</I> ‘dusk, gloom, darkness’, <I>lómëar</I> ‘child of gloom’ (cf. <I>Ló-mëarni), lómin</I> ‘shade, shadow’, <I>lomir</I> ‘I hide’, <I>lomba</I> ‘secret’. Cf. <I>Wirilómë</I>. Gnomish words are <I>lôm</I> ‘gloom, shade’, <I>lómin</I> ‘shadowy, gloomy’ and noun ‘gloom’: so <I>Dor Lómin</I>. The same element occurs in <I>Lomendánar</I> ’ Days of Gloaming ’.

<B>Ilinsor</B>   A late entry in GL gives <I>Glinthos=Qenya Ilinsor</I>, Helmsman of the Moon. The first element is probably <I>glint</I> ‘crystal’. <I>Ilinsor</I> does not appear in QL.

<B>Ilkorin</B>   A negative prefix <I>il-</I> is given in both dictionaries; in GL it is said that il- ‘denotes the opposite, the reversal, i.e. more than the mere negation’. See <I>[Kôr]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Kôr</I>).

<B>Ilsaluntë</B>   (Name of the Moon.) Il<I>sa</I> is given in QL as ‘the mystic name of silver, as <I>laurë</I> of gold’; it is the i of

