---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P60.
date: 1983-01-01 01:00
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 60
characters: 
tags: ['Ainulindalë', 'Ainur']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
continuous between the two tales, and there is no suggestion or indication that the composition of <I>The Building of Valinor</I> did not follow that of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I>.
</p>

In later years the Creation myth was revised and rewritten over and over again; but it is notable that in this case only and in contrast to the development of the rest of the mythology there is a direct tradition, manuscript to manuscript, from the earliest draft to the final version: each text is directly based on the one preceding.\* Moreover, and most remarkably, the earliest version, written when my father was 27 or 28 and embedded still in the context of the Cottage of Lost Play, was so evolved in its conception that it underwent little change of an essential kind. There were indeed very many changes, which can be followed stage by stage through the successive texts, and much new matter came in; but the fall of the original sentences can continually be recognized in the last version of the <I>Ainulindalë</I>, written more than thirty years later, and even many phrases survived.

It will be seen that the great theme that Ilúvatar propounded to the Ainur was originally made somewhat more explicit (‘The story that I have laid before you,’ p. 50), and that the words of Ilúvatar to the Ainur at the end of the Music contained a long declaration of what Melko had brought about, of what he had introduced into the world's history ([p. 52]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p52)). But by far the most important difference is that in the early form the Ainur's first sight of the World was in its actuality (‘even now the world unfolds and its history begins’, p. 53), not as a Vision that was taken away from them and only given existence in the words of Ilúvatar: <I>Eä!</I> Let these things Be! <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 20).

Yet when all differences have been observed, they are much less remarkable than the solidity and completeness with which the myth of the Creation emerged at its first beginning.

In this ‘Tale’, also, many specific features of less general import make their appearance; and many of them were to survive. Manwë, called ‘lord of Gods and Elves and Men’,

<BR>
\* For comparison with the published text in <I>The Silmarillion</I> it should be noted that some of the matter of the early version does not appear in the <I>Ainulindalë</I> itself but at the end of Chapter 1, <I>Of the Beginning of Days</I> (pp. 39-42).

