---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P315.
date: 1983-01-01 05:15
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 315
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 315
</p>

the Sun. In the Valar name-list the Sun-maiden is also called <I>Úrinki,</I> and this also appears in QL as a name of the Sun.

The element <I>-wen</I> is given in QL under root GWENE: <I>wen</I> and <I>wendi</I> ‘maid, girl’, <I>-wen</I> feminine patronymic, like masculine <I>-ion, wendelë</I> ‘maidenhood’ (see <I>Wen-delin).</I> In GL the forms were much changed and confused. The words given have stems in <I>gwin-, gwen-, gweth,</I> with meanings ‘woman’, ‘girl’, etc.; the root seems to have been changed from <I>gweni-</I> to <I>gwedhe-,</I> with reference both to Qenya <I>meril</I> (see <I>Meril-i-Turinqi)</I> and Qenya <I>wendi.</I>

<B>Utumna   </B>In QL the root of <I>Utumna</I> (‘lower regions of gloom and darkness in the North, Melko's first dwelling’) is not given, but cf. the word t<I>umna</I> ‘deep, profound, dark or hidden’ cited under <I>Tombo.</I> In Gnomish the forms are <I>Udum</I> and <I>Uduvna;</I> Belcha (Melko) is called <I>Udu-vrin.</I>

<B>Úvanimor  </B>See <I>Vána.</I>

Vai   The root VAYA ‘enfold’ in QL yields <I>Vai</I> ‘the Outer Ocean’, <I>Vaimo</I> or <I>Vailimo</I> ‘Ulmo as Ruler of Vai’, <I>vaima</I> ‘robe’, <I>vainë</I> ‘sheath’, <I>vainolë</I> ‘quiver’, <I>vaita-</I> ‘to wrap’, <I>Vaitya</I> ‘the outermost airs beyond the world’, etc. In Gnomish the form is <I>Bai,</I> with related words <I>Baithon</I> ‘the outer airs', <I>baith</I> ‘garment’, <I>baidha</I> ‘to clothe’, <I>bain</I> ‘clad (Q. <I>vaina)’.</I>

<B>Vailimo   </B>See <I>Vai.</I> In Gnomish the form is <I>Belmoth (< Bail-moth);</I> there is also a poetic name <I>Bairos.</I> Ulmo is also called in Gnomish <I>i Chorweg a-Vai,</I> i.e. ‘the old one of Vai’ <I>(hôr</I> ‘old, ancient (only of things still existing)’, <I>hortha-</I> ‘grow old’, <I>horoth</I> ‘old age’, <I>Hôs</I> ‘old age’, a name of Fuil). For <I>-weg</I> see <I>Bronweg.</I>

<B>Vaitya   </B>See Vai.

<B>Valahíru   </B>(Marginal addition in the text against <I>Valatúru,</I> p. 201.) Not in the dictionaries, but probably to be associated with QL root HERE ‘rule, have power’: <I>heru-</I> ‘to rule’, <I>heru</I> ‘lord’, <I>heri</I> ‘lady’, <I>hérë</I> ‘lordship’.

<B>Valar  </B>In QL ’ <I>Valar</I> or <I>Vali</I> is derived from root VALA, with masc. singular <I>Valon</I> or <I>Valmo</I> and fem, singular <I>Valis</I>

