---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P104.
date: 1983-01-01 01:44
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 104
characters: 
tags: ['Eldalië', 'Eldar', 'Eriol', 'Faring Forth', 'Limpë', 'Makar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
of laughter that we knew in Valinor? O child of Men who wouldst be sharer of the fates of the Eldalië, what of our high desires and all those things we look for still to be — for lo! if you drink this drink all these must you know and love, having one heart with us — nay, even at the Faring Forth, should Eldar and Men fall into war at the last, still must you stand by us against the children of your kith and kin, but until then never may you fare away home though longings gnaw you — and the desires that at whiles consume a full-grown man who drinketh <I>limpë</I> are a fire of unimagined torture — knew you these things, O Eriol, when you fared hither with your request?’
</p>

‘Nay, I knew them not,’ said Eriol sadly, ‘though often have I questioned folk thereof. ’

‘Then lo!’ said Meril, ‘I will begin a tale, and tell you some of it ere the long afternoon grows dim — but then must you fare hence again in patience’; and Eriol bowed his head.

‘Then,’ said Meril, ‘now I will tell you of a time of peace the world once knew, and it is known as “Melko's Chains”.<SUP>[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p114)</SUP> Of the Earth I will tell you as the Eldar found it and of the manner of their awakening into it.

Behold, Valinor is built, and the Gods dwell in peace, for Melko is far in the world delving deep and fortifying himself in iron and cold, but Makar and Meássë ride upon the gales and rejoice in earthquakes and the overmastering furies of the ancient seas. Light and beautiful is Valinor, but there is a deep twilight upon the world, for the Gods have gathered so much of that light that had before flowed about the airs. Seldom now falls the shimmering rain as it was used, and there reigns a gloom lit with pale streaks or shot with red where Melko spouts to heaven from a fire-torn hill.

Then Palúrien Yavanna fared forth from her fruitful gardens to survey the wide lands of her domain, and wandered the dark continents sowing seed and brooding upon hill and dale. Alone in that agelong gloaming she sang songs of the utmost enchantment, and of such deep magic were they that they floated about the rocky places and their echoes lingered for years of time in hill and empty plain, and all the good magics of all later days are whispers of the memories of her echoing song.

Then things began to grow there, fungus and strange growths heaved in damp places and lichens and mosses crept

