---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P147.
date: 1983-01-01 02:27
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 147
characters: 
tags: ['Aman', 'Aulë', 'Easterling Men', 'Eldamar', 'Earendil', 'Bay of Eldamar', 'Great Lands', 'Great Sea(s)']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
from those times after it was anchored far away from Valinor in the midst of the ocean; afterwards, this idea survived in the context of the light of the Trees passing through the Calacirya and falling on Tol Eressëa near at hand in the Bay of Eldamar. Similarly, it seems that Ulmo's instruction of the Solosimpi in music and sea-lore while sitting ‘upon a headland’ of Tol Eressëa after its binding to the sea-bottom was shifted to Ossë's instruction of the Teleri ‘in all manner of sea-lore and sea-music’ sitting on a rock off the coast of Middle-earth <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 58).
</p>

Very noteworthy is the account given here of the gap in the Mountains of Valinor. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> the Valar made this gap, the Calacirya or Pass of Light, only after the coming of the Eldar to Aman, for ‘even among the radiant flowers of the Tree-lit gardens of Valinor they [the Vanyar and Noldor] longed still at times to see the stars' ([p. 59]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p59)); whereas in this tale it was a ‘natural’ feature, associated with a long creek thrust in from the sea.

From the account of the coming of the Elves to the shores of the Great Lands it is seen ([p. 127]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p127)) that Hisilómë was a region bordering the Great Sea, agreeing with its identification as the region marked <I>g</I> on the earliest map, see pp. [83]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83), [120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120); and most remarkably we meet here the idea that Men were shut in Hisilómë by Melko, an idea that survived right through to the final form in which the Easterling Men were rewarded after the Nirnaeth Arnoediad for their treacherous service to Morgoth by being confined in Hithlum <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 195).

In the description of the hill and city of Kôr appear several features that were never lost in the later accounts of Tirion upon Tuna. Cf. <I>The Silmarillion p</I>. 59:

Upon the crown of Túna the city of the Elves was built, the white walls and terraces of Tirion; and the highest of the towers of that city was the Tower of Ingwë, Mindon Eldaliéva, whose silver lamp shone far out into the mists of the sea.

The dust of gold and ‘magic metals' that Aulë piled about the feet of Kôr powdered the shoes and clothing of Earendil

