---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P354.
date: 1983-01-01 05:54
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 354
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
xii THE BOOK OF LOST TALES: PART I
</p>

treme oldness of the extremely old can be made apparent and made to be felt continuously. And the very fact that <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> establishes such a powerful sense of a real time-structure (far more powerful than can be done by mere chronological assertion, tables of dates) provides this necessary vantage-point. To read <I>The Silmarillion</I> one must place oneself imaginatively at the time of the ending of the Third Age — within Middle-earth, looking back: at the temporal point of Sam Gamgee's ‘I like that!’ — adding, ‘I should like to know more about it’. Moreover the compendious or epitomising form and manner of <I>The Silmarillion,</I> with its suggestion of ages of poetry and ‘lore’ behind it, strongly evokes a sense of ‘untold tales', even in the telling of them; ‘distance’ is never lost. There is no narrative urgency, the pressure and fear of the immediate and unknown event. We do not actually see the Silmarils as we see the Ring. The maker of ‘The Silmarillion’, as he himself said of the author of <I>Beowulf,</I> ‘was telling of things already old and weighted with regret, and he expended his art in making keen that touch upon the heart which sorrows have that are both poignant and remote’.

As has now been fully recorded, my father greatly desired to publish ‘The Silmarillion’ together with <I>The Lord of the Rings.</I> I say nothing of its practicability at the time, nor do I make any guesses at the subsequent fate of such a much longer combined work, quadrilogy or tetralogy, or at the different courses that my father might then have taken — for the further development of ‘The Silmarillion’ itself, the history of the Elder Days, would have been arrested. But by its posthumous publication nearly a quarter of a century later the natural order of presentation of the whole ‘Matter of Middle-earth’ was inverted; and it is certainly debatable whether it was wise to publish in 1977 a version of the primary ‘legendarium’ standing on its own and claiming, as it were, to be self-explanatory. The published work has no ‘framework’, no suggestion of what it is and how (within the imagined world) it came to be. This I now think to have been an error.

The letter of 1963 quoted above shows my father pondering the mode in which the legends of the Elder Days might be presented. The original mode, that of <I>The Book of Lost</I>

