---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P82.
date: 1983-01-01 01:22
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 82
characters: 
tags: ['Aratar', 'Arda', 'Aulë', 'Children of Ilúvatar', 'Eldar', 'Fui', 'Maiar', 'Melko', 'Melkor', 'Men', 'Noldorin', 'Oromë', 'Palúrien', 'Salmar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
the spouse of Oromë, but Oromë was the son of Aulë and (Yavanna) Palúrien; in the later evolution of the myths Vána sank down in relation to Nienna, whereas Oromë rose, becoming finally one of the great Valar, the <I>Aratar</I>.
</p>

Particularly interesting is the passage concerning the host of lesser spirits who accompanied Aulë and Palúrien, from which one sees how old is the conception of the Eldar as quite dissimilar in essential nature from ‘brownies, fays, pixies, leprawns’, since the Eldar are ‘of the world’ and bound to it, whereas those others are beings from before the world's making. In the later work there is no trace of any such explanation of the ‘pixie’ element in the world's population: the Maiar are little referred to, and certainly not said to include such beings as ‘sing amid the grass at morning and chant among the standing corn at eve’.\*

Salmar, companion of Ulmo, who has appeared in <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> ([p. 56]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p56)), is now identified with Noldorin, who was mentioned by Vairë in <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I> (p. 5); such of his story as can be discerned will appear later. Subsequent writings say nothing of him save that he came with Ulmo and made his horns <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 40).

In the later development of this narrative there is no mention of Tulkas (or Mandos!) going off to round up Melkor at the very outset of the history of the Valar in Arda. In <I>The Silmarillion</I> we learn rather of the great war between the Valar and Melko ‘before Arda was full-shaped’, and how it was the coming of Tulkas from ‘the far heaven’ that routed him, so that he fled from Arda and ‘brooded in the outer darkness’.

<BR>
\* Cf. <I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 30: ‘With the Valar came other spirits whose being also began before the world, of the same order as the Valar but of less degree. These are the Maiar, the people of the Valar, and their servants and helpers. Their number is not known to the Elves, and few have names in any of the tongues of the Children of Ilúvatar.’ An earlier version of this passage reads: ‘Many lesser spirits they [the Valar] brought in their train, both great and small, and some of these Men have confused with the Eldar or Elves; but wrongly, for they were before the world, but Elves and Men awoke first in the world after the coming of the Valar.’

