---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P309.
date: 1983-01-01 05:09
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 309
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>Appendix </I>309
</p>

confusion of the two. ’ (Legolas Green-leaf appears in the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin; </I>he was an Elf of Gondolin, and being night-sighted he led the fugitives from the city over the plain in the dark. A note associated with the tale says that ‘he liveth still in Tol Eressëa named by the Eldar there <I>Laiqalassë’.)</I>

<B>Tarn Eui   </B>See <I>Moritarnon, Fui.</I>

<B>Tavari   </B>In the list of fays referred to under <I>Nandini </I>the <I>Tavari </I>are ‘fays of the woods'. In QL <I>tavar (tavarni) </I>‘dale-sprites' is derived from a root TAVA, whence also <I>tauno </I>‘forest’, <I>taulë </I>‘great tree’, <I>tavas </I>‘woodland’. GL has <I>tavor </I>‘a wood-fay’, <I>taur, tavros </I>‘forest’ <I>(Tavros </I>also a proper name, ‘chief wood-fay, the Blue Spirit of the Woods'. Later, <I>Tavros </I>became a name of Oromë, leading through <I>Tauros </I>to the form <I>Tauron </I>in <I>The Silmarillion).</I>

<B>Tavrobel   </B>This is given in GL with the translation ‘wood-home’ (see <I>Tavari). </I>The element <I>pel </I>is said to be ‘usual only in such place-names as <I>Tavrobel’, </I>and means ‘village, hamlet, -ham’. In a separate note elsewhere an additional Gnomish name <I>Tavrost </I>is given, and Qenya names <I>Tavaros(së), Taurossë. Tavrost </I>evidently contains <I>rost </I>‘slope, hillside, ascent’, with associated words <I>rosta </I>‘ascent’ <I>(Rost‘aura </I>‘Sunrise’), <I>ront </I>‘high, steep’, ascribed to a stem <I>rō-, oro-. </I>These are etymological variants of words given under <I>Kalormë.</I>

<B>Telelli   </B>This term, which occurs once only in the Tales (p. 9), is obscure. In QL, in early entries, a complex of words is given all of which mean ‘little elf: these include <I>Teler </I>and <I>Telellë, </I>and the adjectives <I>telerëa </I>and <I>telella. </I>There is no suggestion of any distinction between them. An isolated note states that young Elves of all clans who dwelt in Kôr to perfect their arts of singing and poetry were called <I>Telelli; </I>but in another place <I>Telellin, </I>a dialect, appears to be used instead of <I>Telerin. </I>See <I>Teleri.</I>

<B>Teleri   </B>See <I>Telelli. </I>In GL appears <I>Tilith </I>‘an elf, a member of the first of the three tribes of the fairies or Eldar; plural <I>Tilthin’. </I>The later meaning of <I>Teleri, </I>when it became the name of the Third Tribe, was already potentially present: QL gives a root TEL+U with deriv-

