---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P262.
date: 1983-01-01 04:22
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 262
characters: 
glossaries: ['wildered']
tags: ['Dark Elves', 'Eldalië', 'the Tale of Earendel', 'Eldar', 'lost fairies', 'Fay(s)', 'Gilfanon', 'Great Folk of the West', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'Ilúvatar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
‘the great tale of Earendel’. But that was not even begun.
</p>

Thus the <I>Lost Tales</I> lack their middle, and their end.

I give here the text of Gilfanon's Tale so far as it goes.

Now when Vairë made an end, said Gilfanon: ‘Complain not if on the morrow I weave a long tale, for the things I tell of cover many years of time, and I have waited long to tell them,’ and Lindo laughed, saying he might tell to his heart's desire all that he knew.

But on the morrow Gilfanon sat in the chair and in this wise he began:

‘Now many of the most ancient things of the Earth are forgotten, for they were lost in the darkness that was before the Sun, and no lore may recover them; yet mayhap this is new to the ears of many here that when the Teleri, the Nol-doli, and the Solosimpi fared after Oromë and afterward found Valinor, yet was that not all of the race of the Eldalië that marched from Palisor, and those who remained behind are they whom many call the Qendi, the lost fairies of the world, but ye Elves of Kôr name Ilkorins, the Elves that never saw the light of Kôr. Of these some fell out upon the way, or were lost in the trackless glooms of those days, being wil-dered and but newly awakened on the Earth, but the most were those who left not Palisor at all, and a long time they dwelt in the pine-woods of Palisor, or sat in silence gazing at the mirrored stars in the pale still Waters of Awakening. Such great ages fared over them that the coming of Nornorë among them faded to a distant legend, and they said one to another that their brethren had gone westward to the Shining Isles. There, said they, do the Gods dwell, and they called them the Great Folk of the West, and thought they dwelt on firelit islands in the sea; but many had not even seen the great waves of that mighty water.

Now the Eldar or Qendi had the gift of speech direct from Ilúvatar, and it is but the sunderance of their fates that has altered them and made them unlike; yet is none so little changed as the tongue of the Dark Elves of Palisor.<SUP>[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p278)</SUP>

Now the tale tells of a certain fay, and names him Tû the wizard, for he was more skilled in magics than any that have dwelt ever yet beyond the land of Valinor; and wandering about the world he found the . . .<SUP>[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p278)</SUP> Elves and he drew them

