---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P90.
date: 1983-01-01 01:30
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 90
characters: 
tags: ['Almaren', 'Arda', 'Lamps, The', 'Melko', 'Ship of the World', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Ulmo', 'Ulmonan', 'Vai', 'Utumno']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
that I have cited above, in which Ulmo addresses the Valar on the subject of Vai, concludes:
</p>

O Valar, ye know not all wonders, and many secret things are there <I>beneath the Earth's dark keel</I>, even where I have my mighty halls of Ulmonan, that ye have never dreamed on.

But in the drawing Ulmonan is not beneath the ship's keel, it is within the ship's hull; and I am inclined to think that Ulmo's words ‘beneath the Earth's dark keel’ refer to the shape of the Earth itself, which is certainly ship-like. Moreover, close examination of the original drawing strongly suggests to me that the mast and sail, and still more clearly the curved prow, <I>were added afterwards</I>. Can it be that the shape of the Earth and of Vai as he had drawn them — with the appearance of a ship's hull — prompted my father to add mast, sail, and prow as <I>a jeu d 'esprit</I>, without deeper significance? That seems uncharacteristic and unlikely, but I have no other explanation to offer.\*

(iii) The Lamps ([pp. 69-71]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p69))

In this part of the narrative the tale differs remarkably from the later versions. Here there is no mention of the dwelling of the Valar on the Isle of Almaren after the making of the Lamps (<I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 35), nor of course of the return of Melko from ‘outside’ — because here Melko not only did not leave the world after entering it, but actually himself made the pillars of the Lamps. In this story, though Melko was distrusted by some, his guileful co-operation (even to the extent of contributing names for the pillars) was accepted, whereas in the later story his hostility and malice were known and manifest to the Valar, even though they did not know of his return to Arda and the building of Utumno until too late. In the present tale there is a tricksiness, a low cunning, in Melko's behaviour that could not survive (yet the

<BR>
\* If this is so, and if <I>I Vene Kemen</I> means ‘The Earth-Ship’, then this title must have been added to the drawing at the same time as the mast, sail, and prow. — In the little notebook referred to on [p. 13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p13) there is an isolated note: ‘Map of the Ship of the World. ’

