---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P145.
date: 1983-01-01 02:25
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 145
characters: 
tags: ['Arcturus', 'Aulë', 'Great Bear', 'Great Lands', 'Great March', 'Great Journey', 'Lamps, The', 'Melko', 'Melkor', 'Middle-earth']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Valacirca, the Sickle of the Valar and sign of doom’; but here this is denied, and a special origin is claimed for the Great Bear, whose stars were not of Varda's contriving but were sparks that escaped from Aulë's forge. In the little notebook mentioned on <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p13">p. 13</a>, which is full of disjointed jottings and hastily noted projects, a different form of this myth appears:
</p>

The Silver Sickle

The seven butterflies

Aulë was making a silver sickle. Melko interrupted his work telling him a lie concerning the lady Palúrien. Aulë so wroth that he broke the sickle with a blow. Seven sparks leapt up and winged into the heavens. Varda caught them and gave them a place in the heavens as a sign of Palúrien's honour. They fly now ever in the shape of a sickle round and round the pole.

There can be no doubt, I think, that this note is earlier than the present text.

The star Morwinyon, ‘who blazes above the world's edge in the west’, is Arcturus; see the Appendix on Names. It is nowhere explained why Morwinyon-Arcturus is mythically conceived to be always in the west.

Turning now to the Great March and the crossing of the ocean, the origin of Tol Eressëa in the island on which Ossë drew the Gods to the western lands at the time of the fall of the Lamps (see p. 70) was necessarily lost afterwards with the loss of that story, and Ossë ceased to have any proprietary right upon it. The idea that the Eldar came to the shores of the Great Lands in three large and separated companies (in the order Teleri — Noldori — Solosimpi, as later Vanyar — Noldor — Teleri) goes back to the beginning; but here the first people and the second people each crossed the ocean alone, whereas afterwards they crossed together.

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 58) ‘many years' elapsed before Ulmo returned for the last of the three kindreds, the Teleri, so long a time that they came to love the coasts of Middle-earth, and Ossë was able to persuade some of them to remain (Círdan the Shipwright and the Elves of the Falas, with their havens at Brithombar and Eglarest). Of this there is no trace

