---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P45. II. Commentary on the Link between Chap.I &amp; Chap.II
date: 1983-01-01 00:45
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 45
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary", 'Ǽlfwine', 'Ainulindalë', 'Eriol', 'Gnomes', 'Great Lands', 'Ilúvatar', 'Inwë', 'Inwir', 'Island Elves', 'Lord for Always', 'Kôr', 'Kortirion', 'lost bands', 'Melko', 'Men', 'Music of the Ainur', 'Noldoli', 'Noldor', 'Noldorin', 'Rúmil', 'Silmarillion, The', 'Solosimpi', 'Teleri', 'Tirion', 'Tol Eressëa', 'World, The']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
that no wisdom of the Valar or of Eldar or of Men can go.’
</p>

‘Who was Ilúvatar?’ said Eriol. ‘Was he of the Gods?’

‘Nay,’ said Rúmil, ‘that he was not, for he made them. Ilúvatar is the Lord for Always who dwells beyond the world; who made it and is not of it or in it, but loves it. ’

‘This have I never heard elsewhere,’ said Eriol.

‘That may be,’ said Rúmil, ‘for 'tis early days in the world of Men as yet, nor is the Music of the Ainur much spoken of.’

‘Tell me,’ said Eriol, ‘for I long to learn, what was the Music of the Ainur?’

<BR>
Commentary on the Link between <I>The Cottage of Lost Play and The Music of the Ainur</I>

Thus it was that the <I>Ainulindalë</I> was first to be heard by mortal ears, as Eriol sat in a sunlit garden in Tol Eressëa. Even after Eriol (or Ǽlfwine) had fallen away, Rúmil remained, the great Noldorin sage of Tirion ‘who first achieved fitting signs for the recording of speech and song’ <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 63), and <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> continued to be ascribed to him, though invested with the gravity of a remote time he moved far away from the garrulous and whimsical philologist of Kortirion. It is to be noted that in this account Rúmil had been a slave under Melko.

Here the Exile of the Noldor from Valinor appears, for it is to this that Rúmil's words about the march from Kôr undoubtedly refer, rather than to Inwë's ‘march into the world’ (pp. 5, 18); and something is said also of the languages, and of those who spoke them.

In this link-passage Rúmil asserts:

(1) that the <I>Teleri, Solosimpi</I>, and <I>Inwir</I> had linguistic differences in the past;

(2) but that these dialects are now merged in the ‘tongue of the island Elves';

(3) that the tongue of the <I>Noldoli</I> (Gnomes) was deeply sundered through their departure into the Great Lands and their captivity under Melko;

(4) that those Noldoli who now dwell in Tol Eressëa have learnt the tongue of the island Elves; but others remain in

