---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P120.
date: 1983-01-01 02:00
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 120
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
him, is foreign to it likewise. But some elements survived: the chain Angainor forged by Aulë (if not the marvellous metal <I>tilkal </I>with its most uncharacteristically derived name), the wrestling of Tulkas with Melko, his imprisonment in Mandos for ‘three ages', and the idea that his fortress was not destroyed to its foundations. It emerges too that the clement and trustful character of Manwë was early defined; while the reference to Mandos’ seldom speaking is possibly a foreshadowing of his pronouncing his judgements only at the bidding of Manwë (see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p94">p. 94</a>). The origin of nightingales in the domain of Lórien in Valinor is already present.
</p>

Lastly, it may seem from the account of the journey of the Valar in this tale that Hisilómë (which survived without any further change as the Quenya name of Hithlum) was here a quite distinct region from the later Hithlum, since it is placed <I>beyond the </I>Mountains of Iron: in <I>The Silmarillion </I>the Mountains of Iron are said to have been reared by Melkor ‘as a fence to his citadel of Utumno’: ‘they stood upon the borders of the regions of everlasting cold, in a great curve from east to west’ ([p. 118]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p118)). But in fact the ‘Mountains of Iron’ here correspond to the later ‘Mountains of Shadow’ <I>(Ered Weth-rin). </I>In an annotated list of names accompanying the tale of <I>The Fall of Gondolin </I>the name <I>Dor Lómin </I>is thus defined:

<I>Dor Lómin </I>or the ‘Land of Shadow’ was that region named of the Eldar <I>Hisilómë </I>(and this means ‘Shadowy Twilights') . . . and it is so called by reason of the scanty sun which peeps little over the Iron Mountains to the east and south of it.

On the little map given on [p. 83]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p83) the line of peaks which I have marked/almost certainly represents these mountains, and the region to the north of them, marked g, is then Hisilómë.

The manuscript continues, from the point where I have ended the text in this chapter, with no break; but this point is the end of a section in the mythological narrative (with a brief interruption by Eriol), and the remainder of Meril-i-Turinqi's tale is reserved to the next chapter. Thus I make two tales of one.

