---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P357.
date: 1983-01-01 05:57
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 357
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Foreword xv
</p>

with <I>The Silmarillion,</I> a writer dies before finishing his work and leaves more than one version of some of its parts, which then find publication elsewhere. Which version will the critic approach as the ‘real’ story?

But he also says: ‘Christopher Tolkien has helped us in this instance by honestly pointing out that <I>The Silmarillion</I> in the shape that we have it is the invention of the son not the father’; and this is a serious misapprehension to which my words have given rise.

Again, Professor Shippey, while accepting (p. 169) my assurance that a ‘very high proportion’ of the 1937 ‘Silmarillion’ text remained into the published version, is nonetheless elsewhere clearly reluctant to see it as other than a ‘late’ work, even the latest work of its author. And in an article entitled ‘The Text of <I>The Hobbit:</I> Putting Tolkien's Notes in Order’ (English Studies in Canada, VII, 2, Summer 1981) Constance B. Hieatt concludes that ‘it is very clear indeed that we shall never be able to see the progressive steps of authorial thinking behind <I>The Silmarillion’.</I>

But beyond the difficulties and the obscurities, what is certain and very evident is that for the begetter of Middle-earth and Valinor there was a deep coherence and vital interrelation between all its times, places, and beings, whatever the literary modes, and however protean some parts of the conception might seem when viewed over a long lifetime. He himself understood very well that many who read <I>The Lord of the Rings</I> with enjoyment would never wish to regard Middle-earth as more than the mise-en-scène of the story, and would delight in the sensation of ‘depth’ without wishing to explore the deep places. But the ‘depth’ is not of course an illusion, like a line of imitation book-backs with no books inside them; and Quenya and Sindarin are comprehensive structures. There are explorations to be conducted in this world with perfect right quite irrespective of literary-critical considerations; and it is proper to attempt to comprehend its structure in its largest extent, from the myth of its Creation. Every person, every feature of the imagined world that seemed significant to its author is then worthy of attention in its own right, Manwë or Fëanor no less than Gandalf or Galadriel, the Silmarils no less than the Rings; the Great

