---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P297.
date: 1983-01-01 04:57
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 297
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 297
</p>

<I>glôrín, glôriol </I>‘golden’, but GL gives no names of the<BR>Golden Tree. Cf. <I>Bráglorin, Glorvent.</I>

<B>limpë  </B><I>limpë </I>‘drink of the fairies' is given in QL under root LIPI with <I>lipte- </I>‘to drip’, <I>liptë </I>‘a little drop’, <I>lipil </I>‘little glass’. Corresponding forms in GL are <I>limp </I>or <I>limpelis </I>‘the drink of the fairies', <I>lib- </I>‘to drip’, <I>lib </I>‘a drop’, <I>libli </I>‘small glass’.

<B>Lindeloksë  </B>At one occurrence in the texts and emendation from <I>Lindeloktë </I>and itself emended to <I>Lindelos </I>(p. 12), at others an emendation from Li<I>ndelótë </I>and itself allowed to stand (pp. 80, 142). See <I>Lindelos.</I>

<B>Lindelos   </B><I>Linde- </I>is one of many derivatives from the root LIRI ‘sing’, as lin ‘melody’, <I>lindelë </I>‘song, music’, <I>lin-delëa </I>‘melodious’, <I>lirit </I>‘poem’, <I>lirilla </I>‘lay, song’ (cf. Rúmil’s <I>tirípti lirilla, </I>p. 43), and the name of the Vala <I>Lirillo. </I>GL has <I>lir- </I>‘sing’ and <I>glîr </I>‘song, poem’. <I>Lindelos </I>is not given in QL, which has the name rejected in the text <I>Lindeloktë </I>(p. 12), here translated ‘singing cluster, laburnum’.

<I>Loktë </I>‘blossom (of flowers in bunches or clusters)’ is derived from a root LOHO, with <I>lokta- </I>‘sprout, put forth leaves or flowers'. This is said to be an extended form of root OLO ‘tip’, whence <I>olë </I>‘three’, <I>olma </I>‘nine’, <I>ólemë </I>‘elbow’. Another extended form of this root is LO'O, from which are derived <I>lótë </I>‘a flower’ (and <I>-lot </I>‘the common form in compounds') and many other words; cf. <I>Lindelótë, </I>another rejected name of the Golden Tree (pp. 80, 142), <I>Wingilot. </I>For Gnomish words see <I>Gar Lossion. </I>No Gnomish name of the Golden Tree is found in GL, but it was in fact <I>Glingol </I>(which originally appeared in the text, see p. 12); GL has <I>glin </I>‘sound, voice, utterance’ (also lin ‘sound’), with the note that <I>-glin, -grin </I>is a suffix in the names of languages, as <I>Goldogrin </I>Gnomish.

<B>Lirillo   </B>(A name of Salmar-Noldorin, p. 158.) See <I>Lindelos.</I>

<B>Lómëarni  </B>(A name of the Dark Elves, p. 279 note 6.) See <I>Hisilómë.</I>

<B>Lomendánar  </B>‘Days of Gloaming’ (p. 69). See <I>Hisilómë, Danuin.</I>

<B>Lórien  </B>A derivative of the root LORO ‘slumber’, with <I>lor-</I>

