---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P253.
date: 1983-01-01 04:13
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IX. THE HIDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 253
characters: 
tags: ['Aulë', 'Enchanted Isles', 'Great Lands']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Ossë, is the origin of the conclusion of Chapter XI of <I>The Silmarillion</I>:
</p>

And in that time, which songs call <I>Nurtalë Valinoréva</I>, the Hiding of Valinor, the Enchanted Isles were set, and all the seas about them were filled with shadows and bewilderment. And these isles were strung as a net in the Shadowy Seas from the north to the south, before Tol Eressëa, the Lonely Isle, is reached by one sailing west. Hardly might any vessel pass between them, for in the dangerous sounds the waves sighed for ever upon dark rocks shrouded in mist. And in the twilight a great weariness came upon mariners and a loathing of the sea; but all that ever set foot upon the islands were there entrapped, and slept until the Change of the World.

It is clear from this passage in the tale that the Magic Isles were set to the east of the Shadowy Seas, though ‘the huge glooms. . . . stretched forth tongues of darkness towards them’; while in an earlier passage ([p. 135]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p135)) it is said that beyond Tol Eressëa (which was itself beyond the Magic Isles) ‘is the misty wall and those great sea-glooms beneath which lie the Shadowy Seas'. The later ‘Enchanted Isles' certainly owe much as a conception to the Magic Isles, but in the passage just cited from <I>The Silmarillion</I> they were set in the Shadowy Seas and were in twilight. It is possible therefore that the Enchanted Isles derive also from the Twilit Isles (pp. [68]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p68), [135]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p135)).

The account of the works of Tulkas and Aulë in the northern regions ([p. 237]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p237)) does not read as perfectly in accord with what has been said previously, though a real contradiction is unlikely. On [pp. 185-6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p185) it is plainly stated that there was a strip of water (Qerkaringa, the Chill Gulf) between the tip of the ‘Icefang’ (Helkaraksë) and the Great Lands at the time of the crossing of the Noldoli. In this same passage the Ice-fang is referred to as ‘a narrow neck, which the Gods after destroyed’. The Noldoli were able to cross over to the Great Lands despite ‘that gap at the far end’ ([p. 187]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p187)) because in the great cold the sound had become filled with unmoving ice. The meaning of the present passage may be, however, that by the destruction of the Icefang a much wider gap was

