---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P270.
date: 1983-01-01 04:30
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 270
characters: 
tags: ['Asgon', 'Beren', 'Dark Elves', 'Ermon', 'Fay(s)', 'Fëanor', 'Fingolma', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Gnomes', 'Helkaraksë', 'Hisilómë', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'Iron Mountains', 'Bitter Hills']
description: 
published: true
---

The History of the Exiled Gnomes (according to the earlier outlines)

The Gnomes, after the passage of Helkaraksë, spread into Hisilómë, where they had ‘trouble’ with the ancient Shadow Folk in that land — in A called ‘fay-people’, in B <I>‘Úvalear</I> fays'. (We have met the Shadow Folk of Hisilómë before, in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I>, [p. 127]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p127), but there this is a name given by Men, after they were shut in Hisilómë by Melko, to the Lost Elves who remained there after straying on the march from Palisor. It will be seen in the later outlines that these Shadow Folk were an unknown people wholly distinct from Elves; and it seems therefore that the name was preserved while given a new interpretation.)

The Gnomes found the Waters of Asgon\* and encamped there; then took place the Counting of the Folk, the birth of Turgon with ‘prophecies', and the death of Fëanor. On this last matter the outlines are divergent. In A it was Nólemë, called also Fingolma, who died: ‘his bark vanishes down a hidden way — said to be the way that Tuor after escaped by. He sailed to offer sacrifice in the islanded rock in Asgon. ’ (To whom was he sacrificing?) In B, as first written, it was likewise ‘Fingolma (Nólemë)’ who died, but this was emended to Fëanor; ‘his bark vanished down a hidden [way] — said to be that opening that the Noldoli after enlarged and fashioned to a path, so that Tuor escaped that way. He sailed to the Islanded Rock in Asgon because he saw something brightly glitter there and sought his jewels.’

Leaving Asgon the Gnomes passed the Bitter Hills and fought their first battle with Orcs in the foothills of the Iron Mountains. (For the Iron Mountains as the southern border of Hisilómë see pp. [120]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p120), [175-6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p175).) In the <I>Tale of Tinúviel</I> Beren came from Hisilómë, from ‘beyond the Bitter Hills', and ‘through the terrors of the Iron Mountains', and it thus seems clear that the Bitter Hills and the Iron Mountains may be equated.)

The next camp of the Gnomes was ‘by Sirion’ (which here first appears); and here the Gnomes first met the Ilkorins — A adding that these Ilkorins were originally of the Noldoli,

<BR>
\* later Lake Mithrim.

