---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P272.
date: 1983-01-01 04:32
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 272
characters: 
tags: ['Asgon', 'Battle of Unnumbered Tears', 'Fay(s)', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Sons of Fëanor', 'Gondolin', 'Gnomes', 'Hisilómë', 'Húrin', 'Ilkorin(s)']
description: 
published: true
---

The Children of Úrin\* (Sons of Úrin, A) alone of Men fought to the last, and none (save two messengers) came out of the fray; Turgon and a great regiment, seeing the day lost, turned and cut their way out, and rescued a part of the women and children. Turgon was pursued, and there is a reference to ‘Mablon the Ilkorin's sacrifice to save the host’; Maidros and the other sons of Fëanor quarrelled with Turgon — because they wanted the leadership, A — and departed into the south. The remainder of the survivors and fugitives were surrounded, and swore allegiance to Melko; and he was wrathful, because he could not discover whither Turgon had fled.

After a reference to ‘the Mines of Melko’ and ‘the Spell of Bottomless Dread’ (the spell that Melko cast upon his slaves), the story concludes with ‘the Building of Gondolin’ and ‘the estrangement of Men and Elves in Hisilómë, owing to the Battle of Unnumbered Tears': Melko fostered distrust and kept them spying on each other, so that they should not combine against him; and he fashioned the false-fairies or Kaukareldar in their likeness, and these deceived and betrayed Men.<SUP>[10]({{sitp.baseurl}}/vol01-p279)</SUP>

Since the outlines at this point return to mere headings for the tales of Tinúviel, Turin, etc., it is clear that <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> would have ended here.

The History of the Exiled Gnomes (according to the later outline)

The Gnomes sojourned in the Land of Shadows (i.e. Hisilómë), and had dealings with the Shadow Folk. These were fays (C); no one knows whence they came: they are not of the Valar nor of Melko, but it is thought that they came from the outer void and primeval dark when the world was first fashioned. The Gnomes found ‘the Waters of Mithrim (As-gon)’, and here Fëanor died, drowned in the Waters of Mithrim. The Gnomes devised weapons for the first time, and quarried the dark hills. (This is curious, for it has been said in the account of the Kinslaughter at Alqaluntë that ‘so first perished the Eldar neath the weapons of their kin’, [p. 184]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p184).

<BR>
\* later Húrin.

