---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P94.
date: 1983-01-01 01:34
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 94
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

It appears elsewhere (see [p. 98]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p98)) that Nielíqui was the daughter of Oromë and Vána.

(vi) The Gods of Death and the Fates of Elves and Men<BR>([pp. 77-9]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p77))

This section of the tale contains its most surprising and difficult elements. Mandos and his wife Nienna appear in the account of the coming of the Valar into the world at the beginning of the tale ([p. 66]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p66)), where they are named ‘Fantur of Death, Vefántur Mandos’ and ‘Fui Nienna’, ‘mistress of death’. In the present passage it is said that Vefántur named his dwelling Vê by his own name, whereas afterwards <I>(The Silmarillion </I>p. 28) he was called by the name of his dwelling; but in the early writing there is a distinction between the region (Mandos) and the halls (Vê and Fui) within the region. There is here no trace of Mandos as the ‘Doomsman of the Valar’, who ‘pronounces his dooms and his judgements only at the bidding of Manwë ’, one of the most notable aspects of the later conception of this Vala; nor, since Nienna is the wife of Mandos, has Vairë the Weaver, his wife in the later story, appeared, with her tapestries that portray ‘all things that have ever been in Time’ and clothe the halls of Mandos ‘that ever widen as the ages pass’ — in the <I>Lost Tales </I>the name Vairë is given to an Elf of Tol Eressëa. Tapestries ‘picturing those things that were and shall be’ are found here-in the halls of Aulë ([p. 74]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p74)).

Most important in the passage concerning Mandos is the clear statement about the fate of Elves who die: that they wait in the halls of Mandos until Vefántur decrees their release, to be reborn in their own children. This latter idea has already appeared in the tale of <I>The Music of the Ainur </I>([p. 57]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57)), and it remained my father's unchanged conception of Elvish ‘immortality’ for many years; indeed the idea that the Elves might die only from the wounds of weapons or from grief was never changed — it also has appeared in <I>The Music of the Ainur ([ibid.]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57)): </I>‘the Eldar dwell till the Great End unless they be slain or waste in grief, a passage that survived with little alteration in <I>The Silmarillion </I>(p. 42).

With the account of Fui Nienna, however, we come upon ideas in deep contradiction to the central thought of the later

