---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P24.
date: 1983-01-01 00:24
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 24
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<SUB>59</SUB> went walking to and fro

<SUB>60</SUB> still hand in hand; and what they said,

<SUB>61</SUB> ere Waking far apart them led,

<SUB>62</SUB> that only we now know.

<BR>

It is notable that the poem was called <I>The Cottage, </I>or <I>The Little House of Lost Play, </I>whereas what is described is the Cottage of the Children in Valinor, near the city of Kôr; but this, according to Vairë ([p. 8](/MiddleEarth/vol01-p8)), ‘the Cottage of the Play of Sleep’, was ‘not of Lost Play, as has wrongly been said in song among Men’.

I shall not attempt any analysis or offer any elucidation of the ideas embodied in the ‘Cottages of the Children’. The reader, however he interprets them, will in any case not need to be assisted in his perception of the personal and particular emotions in which all was still anchored.

As I have said, the conception of the coming of mortal children in sleep to the gardens of Valinor was soon to be abandoned in its entirety, and in the developed mythology there would be no place for it — still less for the idea that in some possible future day ‘the roads through Arvalin to Valinor shall be thronged with the sons and daughters of Men’.

Likewise, all the ‘elfin’ diminutiveness soon disappeared. The idea of the Cottage of the Children was already in being in 1915, as the poem <I>You and Me </I>shows; and it was in the same year, indeed on the same days of April, that <I>Goblin Feet </I>(or <I>Cumaþ þá Nihtielfas) </I>was written, concerning which my father said in 1971: ‘I wish the unhappy little thing, representing all that I came (so soon after) to fervently dislike, could be buried for ever.’\* Yet it is to be observed that in early notes Elves and Men are said to have been ‘of a size’ in former days, and the smallness (and filminess and transparency) of the ‘fairies' is an aspect of their ‘fading’, and directly related to the domination of Men in the Great Lands. To this

<BR>
\* He had been asked for his permission to include the poem in an anthology, as it had been several times previously. See Humphrey Carpenter, <I>Biography, </I>p. 74, where (a part only) of the poem is printed, and also his bibliography <I>ibid, </I>(year 1915).

