---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P59. II. Commentary
date: 1983-01-01 00:59
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 59
characters: 
tags: ["Name change", "Commentary", 'Ainulindalë', 'Ainur', 'Ainu', 'Eldar', 'Ilu', 'Ilúvatar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
this reason maybe, Melko and many of the Ainu out of good or evil mind would ever be for meddling with them, but seeing that flu had made the Eldar too alike in nature if not in stature to the Ainu their dealings have been chiefly with Men.
</p>

The conclusion of this passage seems to be the only place<BR>where the second text is in direct contradiction of the draft.

[10]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p55) The draft has: ‘and these are they whom ye and we now call the Valur and Valir. ’

11 The entire passage following the mention of the Solosimpi and ‘their love to dwell ever by the shore’ is lacking in the draft.

[12]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57) For this passage the draft has:

“. . . but to Men I will appoint a task and give a great gift.” And he devised that they should have free will and the power of fashioning and designing beyond the original music of the Ainu, that by reason of their operations all things shall in shape and deed be fulfilled, and the world that comes of the music of the Ainu be completed unto the last and smallest.

[13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p57)  ‘whereas the Eldar dwell for ever’ draft text.

<BR>
Changes made to names in <I>The Music of the Ainur</I>

<I>Ainur  </I> Always <I>Ainu</I> in the draft text.

<I>Ilúvatar</I> Usually <I>Ilu</I> in the draft text, but also <I>Ilúvatar</I>.

<I>Ulmo</I> In the draft text Ulmo is thus named but also <I>Linqil</I> (corrected to <I>Ulmo).

Solosimpi < Solosimpë. Valar or Vali</I> Draft text <I>Valur and Valir</I> (these appear to be masculine and feminine forms).

<I>Ónen   < Ówen</I>.

<I>Vai    < Ulmonan</I>.

<BR>
Commentary on <I>The Music of the Ainur</I>

A linking passage continues the text of <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> and leads into the story of <I>The Building of Valinor</I> without any break in the narrative; but I postpone this link until the next chapter. The actual written text is likewise

