---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P282.
date: 1983-01-01 04:42
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 282
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

It is immediately obvious that an already extremely sophisticated and phonetically intricate historical structure lies behind the languages at this stage; but it seems that (unhappily and frustratingly) very little indeed in the way of phonological or grammatical description now survives from those days. I have found nothing, for instance, that sets out even in the sketchiest way the phonological relations between the two languages. Some early phonological description does exist for Qenya, but this became through later alterations and substitutions such a baffling muddle (while the material is in any case intrinsically extremely complex) that I have been unable to make use of it.

To attempt to use later materials for the elucidation of the linguistic ideas of the earliest period would in this book be quite impractical. But the perusal of these two vocabularies shows in the clearest possible way how deeply involved were the developments in the mythology and in the languages, and it would be seriously misleading to publish the <I>Lost Tales</I> without some attempt to show the etymological connections of the names that appear in them. I give therefore as much information, derived from these books, as is possible, but without any speculation beyond them. It is evident, for instance, that a prime element in the etymological constructions was slight variation in ancient ‘roots' (caused especially by differences in the formation of consonants) that in the course of ages yielded very complex semantic situations; or again, that an old vocalic ‘ablaut’ (variation, in length or quality, of vowels in series) was present; but I have thought it best merely to try to present the content of the dictionaries as clearly as I can.

It is noteworthy that my father introduced a kind of ‘historical punning’ here and there: so for instance the root SAHA ‘be hot’ yields (beside <I>saiwa</I> ‘hot’ or <I>sára</I> ‘fiery’) <I>Sahóra</I> ‘the South', and from NENE ‘flow’ come <I>nen</I> ‘river’, <I>nénu</I> ‘yellow water-lily’, and <I>nénuvar</I> ‘pool of lilies' — cf. <I>nenuphar</I> ‘water-lily’, modern French <I>nénufar</I>. There are also several resemblances to early English that are obviously not fortuitous, as <I>hôr</I> ‘old’, HERE ‘rule’, <I>rûm</I> ‘secret (whisper)’.

It will be seen that a great many elements in the later languages, Quenya and Sindarin, as they are known from the published works, go back to the beginning; the languages,

