---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P303. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:03
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 303
characters: ['Noldorin', 'Nólemë', 'I Nori Landar', 'Nornorë', 'Númë', 'Núri']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
poem <I>Goblin Feet</I> (1915), and its Old English title <I>Cumaþ þá Nihtielfas</I> (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p24">p. 24</a>).
</p>

In Gnomish ‘Gnome’ is <I>Golda</I> (‘i.e. wise one’); <I>Gol-dothrim</I> ‘the people of the Gnomes', <I>Goldogrin</I> their tongue, <I>Goldobar, Goldomar</I> ‘Gnomeland’. The equivalent <I>of Noldorin</I> in GL is <I>Goldriel</I>, which was the form antecedent to <I>Golthadriel</I> in the text before both were struck out (p. 11). See <I>[Nólemë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Nólemë)</I>.

<B>Noldorin</B>   See <I>[Noldoli]({{site.baseusl}}/characters#Noldoli)</I>.

<B>Nólemë</B> This is given in QL as a common noun, ‘deep lore, wisdom’ (see <I>[Noldoli]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Noldoli)</I>). The Gnomish name of Finwë Nólemë, <I>Golfinweg</I> ([p. 124]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p124)), contains the same element, as must also the name <I>Fingolma</I> given to him in outlines for <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> ([pp. 270-1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p270)).

<B>I Nori Landar</B> (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, probably meaning ‘the Great Lands', [pp. 87-8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p87).) For nori see <I>[Valinor]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Valinor)</I>. Nothing similar to <I>landar</I> appears in QL; GL gives a word <I>land (lann</I>) ‘broad’.

<B>Nornorë</B>   In QL this name has the form <I>Nomoros</I> ‘herald of the Gods', and with the verb <I>nornoro-</I> ‘run on, run smoothly’ is derived from a root NORO ‘run, ride, spin, etc.’. GL has similar words, <I>nor-</I> ‘run, roll’, <I>norn</I> ‘wheel’, <I>nûr</I> ‘smooth, rolling free’. The name corresponding to <I>Qenya Nornorë</I> is here <I>Drondor</I> ‘messenger of the Gods' <I>(drond</I> ‘race, course, track’ and <I>drô</I> ‘wheel-track, rut’); <I>Drondor</I> was later changed to <I>Dronúrin</I> (< <I>Noronōr-) and drond</I> to <I>dronn</I>.

<B>Númë</B> (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing.) In QL <I>númë</I> ‘West’ is derived from root NUHU ‘bow, bend down, stoop, sink’; other words are <I>núta-</I> ‘stoop, sink’, <I>númeta-, numenda-</I>‘get low (of the Sun)’, <I>númëa</I> ‘in the West’. Gnomish <I>num-</I> ‘sink, descend’, <I>númin</I> ‘in the West’, <I>Auranúmin</I> ‘sunset’, <I>numbros</I> ‘incline, slope’, <I>nunthi</I> ‘downward’. Cf. <I>[Falassë Númëa]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Falassë%20Númëa), [Faskala-númen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Faskala-númen), [Sirnúmen]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Sirnúmen)</I>.

<B>Núri</B>  Name of Fui Nienna: ‘Núri who sighs', [p. 66]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p66). This is given without translation in QL under root NURU, with <I>núru-</I> ‘growl (of dogs), grumble’, <I>nur</I> ‘growl, complaint’ . In Gnomish she is <I>Nurnil</I>, with associated words <I>nur-</I> ‘growl, grumble’, <I>nurn</I> ‘lament’, <I>nurna-</I> ‘bewail, lament’.

