---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P150.
date: 1983-01-01 02:30
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 150
characters: 
tags: ['Enchanted Isles', 'Finwë Nólemë', 'Great Sea(s)', 'Kôr', 'Lonely Island', 'Lonely Isle', 'Mountains of Valinor', 'Noldoli']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
substance being the mention of Tol Eressëa. It is now made clear that the Shadowy Seas were a region of the Great Sea west of Tol Eressëa.
</p>

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 102) the conception had changed, with the change in the anchorage of Tol Eressëa: at the time of the Hiding of Valinor the Enchanted Isles were set, and all the seas about them were filled with shadows and bewilderment. And these isles were strung as a net in the Shadowy Seas from the north to the south, before Tol Eressëa, the Lonely Isle, is reached by one sailing west.

There is a further element of repetition in the account of the gap in the Mountains of Valinor and the hill of Kôr at the head of the creek ([p. 136]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p146)), which have already been described earlier in this same tale ([p. 131-2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p131)). The explanation of this repetition is almost certainly to be found in the two layers of composition in this tale (see [note 8 above]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p140)); for the first of these passages is in the revised portion and the second in the original, pencilled text. My father in his revision had, I think, simply taken in earlier the passage concerning the gap in the Mountains, the hill and the creek, and if he had continued the revision of the tale to its end the second passage would have been excised. This explanation may be suggested also for the repetition of the passage concerning the islands in the Great Sea and the coast of Valinor from the tale of <I>The coming of the Valar and the Building of Valinor</I>, but in that case the implication must be that the revision in ink over the original pencilled manuscript was carried out when the latter was already far ahead in the narrative.

In <I>The Silmarillion</I> the entire account of the making of gem-stones by the Noldoli has become compressed into these words (p. 60):

And it came to pass that the masons of the house of Finwë, quarrying in the hills after stone (for they delighted in the building of high towers), first discovered the earth-gems, and brought them forth in countless myriads; and they devised tools for the cutting and shaping of gems, and carved them in many forms. They hoarded them not, but gave them freely, and by their labour enriched all Valinor.

