---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P219. VIII. NOTES
date: 1983-01-01 03:39
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["VIII. THE TALE OF THE SUN AND MOON"]
page_num: 219
characters: 
tags: ["Notes", 'Aman', 'Artanor', 'Doriath', 'Eriol', 'Fairies', 'Gilfanon', 'Gnomes']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
to listen, and thou Vairë perchance will take up the burden of the tale.’
</p>

Thereat did all rejoice, and the children clapped their hands, for dearly did they love those times when Vairë was the teller of the tale; but Vairë said:

‘Lo, tales I tell of the deep days, and the first is called <I>The Hiding of Valinor. ’</I>

<BR>
NOTES

[1]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195) The manuscript has here <I>Gilfan a-Davrobel</I>, but in the rejected earlier version of this passage the reading is <I>Gilfanon a-Davrobel</I>, suggesting that <I>Gilfan</I> was not intentional.

[2]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195) See [pp. 15-16]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p15) on the relation of Tavrobel to the Staffordshire village of Great Haywood. At Great Haywood the river Sow joins the Trent.

[3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195) In the rejected version of this ‘interlude’ Gilfanon's history is differently recounted: ‘he was long before an Ilkorin and had dwelt ages back in Hisilómë’; ‘he came to Tol Eressëa after the great march [i.e. Inwë's ‘march into the world’, the great expedition from Kôr, see [pp. 17-18]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p17)], for he had adopted blood-kinship with the Noldoli. ’ — This is the first occurrence of the term <I>Ilkorin</I>, which refers to Elves who were ‘not of Kôr’ (cf. the later term <I>Úmanyar</I>, Elves ‘not of Aman’). <I>Artanor</I> is the precursor of Doriath.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195) Gilfanon, a Gnome, is here called the oldest of <I>the fairies;</I> see [p. 47]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p47).

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p195) No explanation of ‘the House of the Hundred Chimneys', near the bridge of Tavrobel, is known to me, but I have never visited Great Haywood, and it may be that there was (or is) a house there that gave rise to it.

[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p196) The rejected form of the ‘interlude’ is quite different in its latter part:

Therefore said Lindo in answer to Eriol: ‘Behold, Gilfanon here can tell you much of such matters, but first of all must you be told of the deeds that were done in Valinor when Melko slew the Trees and the Gnomes marched away into the darkness.‘Tis a long tale but well worth the hearkening. ’ For Lindo loved to tell such tales and sought often an occasion for recalling them; but Gilfanon said: ‘Speak on, my Lindo, but methinks the tale will not be

