---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P287.
date: 1983-01-01 04:47
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 287
characters: ["Earendel", "Eldamar", "Eldar"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<B>Earendel</B>  In an annotated list of names accompanying <I>The Fall of Gondolin</I> there is a suggestion, attributed to Lit-tleheart son of Voronwë, that <I>Earendel</I> had ‘some kinship to the Elfin <I>ea</I> and <I>earen</I> “eagle” and “eyrie” ’, and in QL these words (both given the meaning ‘eagle’) are placed with Earendel, though not explicitly connected. In the tale itself it is said that ‘there are many interpretations both among Elves and Men’ of the name <I>Earendel</I>, with a suggestion that it was a word of ‘some secret tongue’ spoken by the people of Gondolin.

GL has an entry: <I>loringli</I> ‘true Gnomish form of Eär-endel's name, though the Eldar-form has been also adopted and often is met in transition state as <I>larendel, lorendel’</I> (on the distinction between ‘Gnomish’ and ‘Eldar’ see [p. 50]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p50)). Gnomish words for ‘eagle’ are <I>ior, ioroth</I>.

In QL is an entry <I>Eärendilyon</I> ‘son of Earendel (used of any mariner)’; cf. [p. 13]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p13).

<B>Eldamar</B>   For the first element see <I>Eldar. —</I> In QL the following words are given in a group: <I>mar (mas-</I>) ‘dwelling of men, the Earth, -land’, <I>mardo</I> ‘dweller’, <I>masto</I> ‘village’, and <I>-mas</I> equivalent to English <I>-ton, -by</I> in place-names (cf. <I>Mar Vanwa Tyaliéva; Koromas; i-Talka Marda</I> ‘Smith of the World’, Aulë). In GL are <I>bar</I> ‘home’ (< <I>mbar-)</I>, and derivatives, as <I>baros</I> ‘hamlet’, also <I>-bar</I> as suffix ‘dweller’, or ‘home, -ham’.

The Gnomish equivalent of <I>Eldamar</I> was <I>Eglobar</I> (Gnomish <I>Egla —</I> Qenya <I>Elda): ‘‘Eglobar</I> “Elfinesse” = Q. <I>Eldamar</I>, i.e. Elfhome; the land on the edge of Valinor where the fairies dwelt and built Côr. Also in forms <I>Eglabar, Eglamar, Eglomar</I>. ’ In QL <I>Eldamar</I> is said, in a very early entry, to be ‘the rocky beach in western Inwinórë (Faëry)’; ‘upon this rock was the white town built called Kôr’.

<B>Eldar</B>  In QL <I>Elda</I> is given separately, without etymological connections, and defined as ‘a beach-fay or <I>Solosimpë</I> (shore-piper)’. This is a glimpse of an earlier conception than that found in the <I>Lost Tales:</I> the <I>Eldar</I> were originally the Sea-elves. GL has the entry <I>Egla</I> ’ ”a being from outside”, name of the fairies given by the Valar and largely adopted by them, = Q. <I>Elda’</I> (see [p. 266]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p266)); also <I>eg, êg</I> ‘far away, distant’. The association of <I>Eldar</I> with the stars does not go back to the beginning.

