---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P312. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:12
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 312
characters: ['Tolli Kuruvar', 'Tombo', 'Tuilérë', 'Tuivána', 'tulielto']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
name see <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tinwë%20Linto">Tinwë Linto</a>, <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Qalmë-Tárí">Qalmë-Tárí</a></I>. The corresponding Gnomish name is <I>Tinturwin</I> with a different second element (see <I><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/characters#Meril-i-Turinqi">Meril-i-Turinqi</a>)</I>. Varda is also called <I>Timbridhil, Timfiril</I>, with the same first element <I>(Bri-dhil</I> being the Gnomish name of Varda), and <I>Gail-bridh(n)ir</I>, which contains <I>gail</I> ‘star’ (corresponding to Qenya <I>ílë</I> in <I>Ílivarda</I>, not found in QL).
</p>

Tol Eressëa Under root TOLO QL has derivatives <I>tol</I> ‘island; any rise standing alone in water, plain of green, etc.’, <I>tolmen</I> ‘boss (of shield), isolated round hill, etc.’, <I>tolos</I> ‘knob, lump’, <I>tólë</I> ‘centre’, and other words. GL gives <I>tol</I> ‘an isle with high steep coasts'. <I>Eressëa</I> is given in QL under root ERE (distinct from that seen in <I>Eruman)</I> ‘remain alone’: <I>er</I> ‘only, but, still’, <I>eressë</I> ‘singly, only, alone’, <I>eressëa</I> ‘lonely’, <I>erda</I> ‘solitary, deserted’, <I>erin</I> ‘remains'. In Gnomish the Lonely Isle is <I>Tol Erethrin (er</I> ‘one’, <I>ereth</I> ‘solitude’, <I>erethrin</I> ‘solitary, lonely’, etc.)

<B>Tolli Kuruvar</B> (On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, ‘the Magic Isles', [pp. 87-8]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p87).) For <I>Tolli</I> see <I>Tol Eressëa</I>. QL has a group <I>kuru</I> ‘magic, wizardry’, <I>kuruvar</I> ‘wizard’, <I>kuruni</I> ‘witch’, with a note: ‘of the good magic’. GL has <I>curu</I> ‘magic’, <I>curug</I> ‘wizard’, <I>curus</I> ‘witch’.

<B>Tombo</B>   <I>Tombo</I> ‘gong’ is derived in QL from a root TUMU ‘swell (with idea of hollowness)’, together with <I>tumbë</I> ‘trumpet’, <I>tumbo</I> ‘dark vale’, t<I>umna</I> ‘deep, profound, dark or hidden’ (see <I>[Utumna]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Utumna))</I>. Words in Gnomish are <I>tûm</I> ‘valley’, <I>tum</I> ‘hollow’, <I>tumli</I> ‘dale’, <I>tumbol</I> ‘valley-like, hollow’, <I>tumla-</I> ‘hollow out’.

<B>Tuilérë</B> QL root TUYU: <I>tuilë</I> ‘Spring, literally a budding — also collectively: buds, new shoots, fresh green’, <I>Tuilérë</I> ‘Spring’, and several other words, as <I>tuilindo</I> ‘(spring-singer), swallow’. Gnomish forms are <I>tuil, tui-lir</I> ‘Spring’ (with the note that Tuilir=Vána); but Vána is also called <I>Hairen</I> ‘Spring’, presumably connected with <I>hair</I> ‘punctual, timely’, <I>hai</I> ‘punctually’, <I>haidri</I> ‘forenoon’.

<B>Tuivána</B>  See <I>[Tuilérë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tuilérë), [Vána]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Vána)</I>.

<B>tulielto, &c.</B> <I>Tulielto</I> is translated ‘they have come’ ([pp. 122-3]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p122)), and <I>I-Eldar tulier</I> ‘The Eldar have come’ <I>(ibid.); I-kal'antúlien</I> is translated ‘Light hath returned’ ([p. 206]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p206)).

