---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P12. I. Commentary
date: 1983-01-01 00:12
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["I. THE COTTAGE OF LOST PLAY"]
page_num: 12
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary"]
description: 
published: true
---

<I>Lindelos      < Lindeloksë < Lindeloktë Singing Cluster (Glingol</I>).

<I>Telelli    < Telellë</I>.

<I>Arvalin     <Harmalin < Harwalin</I>.

<br>
Commentary on <I>The Cottage of Lost Play</I>

The story of Eriol the mariner was central to my father's original conception of the mythology. In those days, as he recounted long after in a letter to his friend Milton Wald-man,\* the primary intention of his work was to satisfy his desire for a specifically and recognizably <I>English</I> literature of ‘faerie’:

It was from early days grieved by the poverty of my own beloved country: it had no stories of its own (bound up with its tongue and soil), not of the quality that I sought, and found (as an ingredient) in legends of other lands. There was Greek, and Celtic, and Romance, Germanic, Scandinavian, and Finnish (which greatly affected me); but nothing English, save impoverished chap-book stuff.

In his earliest writings the mythology was anchored in the ancient legendary history of England; and more than that, it was peculiarly associated with certain places in England.

Eriol, himself close kin of famous figures in the legends of North-western Europe, came at last on a voyage westward over the ocean to Tol Eressëa, the Lonely Isle, where Elves dwelt; and from them he learned ‘The Lost Tales of Elfinesse’. But his rôle was at first to be more important in the structure of the work than (what it afterwards became) simply that of a man of later days who came to ‘the land of the Fairies' and there acquired lost or hidden knowledge, which he afterwards reported in his own tongue: at first, Eriol was to be an important element in the fairy-history itself — the witness of the

<br>
\* <I>The Letters of J. R. R. Tolkien</I>, ed. Humphrey Carpenter, 1981, p. 144. The letter was almost certainly written in 1951.

