---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P296. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 04:56
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 296
characters: ["Karomas", "Kortirion", "Kosomot", "KuluIIin", "Laisi", "Laurelin"]
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
especially on a hill-top’. At the same time as <I>Côr</I> was replaced by <I>Gwâr, Goros</I> in GL the word <I>gorin (gwarin</I>) ‘circle of trees, =Q. <I>korin’</I> was entered, and all these forms derive from the same root <I>(gwas-</I> or <I>gor- < guor=Q. kor-)</I>, which would seem to signify ‘round-ness’; so in the tale of <I>The Coming of the Elves</I> ‘the Gods named that hill Kôr by reason of its roundness and its smoothness’ (<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p132">p. 132</a>).
</p>

<B>Karomas</B>   A separate and early entry in QL defines <I>Kor-mas</I> (the form in the text before emendation to <I>Ko-romas</I>, [p. 11]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p11)) thus: ‘the new capital of the fairies after their retreat from the hostile world to Tol Eressëa, now Inwinórë. It was named in memory of Kôr and because of its great tower was called also <I>Kortirion</I>. For <I>-mas</I> see <I>[Eldamar]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Eldamar</I>).

<B>Kortirion</B>   The word <I>tirion</I> ‘a mighty tower, a city on a hill’ is given in QL under root TIRI ‘stick up’, with <I>tinda</I> ‘spike’, <I>tirin</I> ‘tall tower’, <I>tirios</I> ‘a town with walls and towers'. There is also another root TIRI, differing in the nature of the medial consonant, with meaning ‘watch, guard, keep; look at, observe’, whence <I>tins</I> ‘watch, vigil’, etc. In GL are <I>tir-</I> ‘look out for, await’, <I>tirin</I> (poetic form <I>tirion</I>) ‘watch-tower, turret’, <I>Tirimbrithla</I> ‘the Tower of Pearl’ (see <I>[Silmarilli]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Silmarilli)</I>).

<B>Kosomot</B>   Son of Melko (see [p. 98]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p98)). With a different second element, <I>Kosomoko</I>, this name is found in QL under root MOKO ‘hate’ <I>(mokir</I> ‘I hate’), and the corresponding Gnomish form is there said to be <I>Gothmog</I>. The first element is from root KOSO ‘strive’, in Gnomish <I>goth</I> ‘war, strife’, with many derivative words.

<B>KuluIIin</B>   This name is not among the derivatives of KULU ‘gold’ in QL, nor does it appear with the Gnomish words (mostly names of the Sun) containing <I>culu</I> in GL. For the meaning of <I>culu</I> in Gnomish see <I>[llsaluntë]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#llsaluntë</I>).

<B>Laisi</B>   See <I>[Tári-Laisi]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tári-Laisi</I>).

<B>Laurelin</B>   QL has <I>laurë</I> ‘gold (much the same as <I>kulu)’, laurina</I> ‘golden’. <I>Laurë</I> is the final I of <I>tilkal</I> (pp. 106-7, where it is said to be the ‘magic’ name of gold, as <I>ilsa</I> of silver). The Gnomish words are <I>glôr</I> ‘gold’,

