---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P61.
date: 1983-01-01 01:01
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["II. THE MUSIC OF THE AINUR"]
page_num: 61
characters: 
tags: ['Ainulindalë', 'Ainur', 'Aratar', 'Aulë', 'Children of the Valar', 'Eönwë', 'Erinti', 'Eriol', 'Fionwë', 'Fionwë-Úrion', 'Gnomes', 'Valar', 'Ilmarë', 'Ilúvatar']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
is surnamed <I>Súlimo</I>, ‘ruler of the airs and wind’; he is clad in sapphires, and hawks of penetrating sight fly from his dwelling on Taniquetil <I>(The Silmarillion</I> p. 40); he loves especially the Teleri (the later Vanyar), and from him they received their gifts of poetry and song; and his spouse is Varda, Queen of the Stars.
</p>

Manwë, Melko, Ulmo, and Aulë are marked out as ‘the four great ones'; ultimately the great Valar, the <I>Aratar</I>, came to be numbered nine, but there was much shifting in the membership of the hierarchy before this was reached. The characteristic concerns of Aulë, and his particular association with the Noldoli, emerge here as they were to remain, though there is attributed to him a delight in ‘tongues and alphabets', whereas in <I>The Silmarillion</I> (p. 39), while this is not denied, it seems to be implied that this was rather the peculiar endowment and skill of the Noldorin Elves; later in the <I>Lost Tales</I> ([p. 155]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p155)) it is said that Aulë himself ‘aided by the Gnomes contrived alphabets and scripts'. Ulmo, specially associated with the Solosimpi (the later Teleri), is here presented as more ‘fain of his honour and jealous of his power’ than Manwë; and he dwells in Vai. Vai is an emendation of Ulmonan; but this is not simply a replacement of one name by another: Ulmonan was the name of Ulmo's halls, which were in Vai, the Outer Ocean. The significance of Vai, an important element in the original cosmology, will emerge in the next chapter.

Other divine beings now appear. Manwë and Varda have offspring, Fionwë-Urion and Erinti. Erinti later became II-marë ‘handmaid of Varda’ (<I>The Silmarillion</I> p. 30), but nothing was ever told of her (see [p. 227]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p227)). Fionwë, his name long afterwards changed to Eönwë, endured to become the Herald of Manwë, when the idea of ‘the Children of the Valar’ was abandoned. Beings subordinate to Ulmo, Salmar, Ossë, and Ónen (later Uinen) appear; though these all survived in the pantheon, the conception of Maiar did not emerge for many years, and Ossë was long numbered among the Valar. The Valar are here referred to as ‘Gods' (indeed when Eriol asked ‘are they the Gods?’ Lindo replied that they were, [p. 41]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p41)), and this usage survived until far on in the development of the mythology.

The idea of Elvish rebirth in their own children is here

