---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P98.
date: 1983-01-01 01:38
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["III. THE COMING OF THE VALAR AND THE BUILDING OF VALINOR"]
page_num: 98
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

But the sons of Men die indeed, and leave the world; wherefore they are called the Guests, or the Strangers. Death is their fate, the gift of Ilúvatar, which as Time wears even the Powers shall envy.

Even so, it seems clear that this central idea, the Gift of Death, was already present.

This matter I must leave, as a conundrum that I cannot solve. The most obvious explanation of the conflict of ideas within these tales would be to suppose <I>The Music of the Ainur</I> later than <I>The Coming of the Valar and the Building of Valinor</I>, but as I have said ([p. 60]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p60)) all the appearances are to the contrary.

Lastly may be noticed the characteristic linguistic irony whereby <I>Eruman</I> ultimately became <I>Araman</I>. For <I>Arvalin</I> meant simply ‘near Valinor’, and it was the other name <I>Eruman</I> that had associations with spirits of the dead; but <I>Araman</I> almost certainly simply means ‘beside Aman’. And yet the same element <I>man-</I> ‘good’ remains, for <I>Aman</I> was derived from it (‘the Unmarred State’).

Two minor matters in the conclusion of the tale remain to be noticed. Here Nornorë is the Herald of the Gods; afterwards this was Fionwë (later Eonwë), see [p. 61]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p61). And in the reference to ‘that low place amid the hills where Valinor may just be glimpsed’, near to Taniquetil, we have the first mention of the gap in the Mountains of Valinor where was the hill of the city of the Elves.

On blank pages near the end of the text of this tale my father wrote a list of secondary names of the Valar (as Manwë <I>Súlimo</I>, etc.). Some of these names appear in the text of the <I>Tales;</I> those that do not are given in the Appendix on Names under the primary names. It emerges from this list that Ómar-Amillo is the twin of Salmar-Noldorin (they are named as brothers in the tale, [p. 76]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p76)); that Nielíqui ([p. 76]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p76)) is the daughter of Oromë and Vána; and that Melko has a son (‘by Ul-bandi’) called Kosomot: this, it will emerge later, was Gothmog Lord of Balrogs, whom Ecthelion slew in Gondolin.

