---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P221.
date: 1983-01-01 03:41
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 221
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
The <I>Tale of the Sun and Moon </I>221
</p>

was a slip, a reversion to an earlier name, and that this is so is shown by the first version, which has, for ‘many marvellous deeds that Gilfanon may tell’ (p. 218), ‘many marvellous deeds as Ailios shall tell’.

20 From this point the second version diverges sharply from<BR>the first. The first reads as follows:

And that is all, methinks,’ said Lindo, ‘that I know to tell of those fairest works of the Gods'; but Ailios said: ‘Little doth it cost thee to spin the tale, an it be of Valinor; it is a while since ye offered us a ..... tale concerning the rising of the Sun and Moon in the East, and a flow of speech has poured from thee since then, but now art thou minded to [?tease], and no word of that promise.’ Of a truth Ailios beneath his roughness liked the words of Lindo as well as any, and he was eager to learn of the matter. ‘That is easy told,’ said Lindo . . .

What follows in the original version relates to the matter<BR>of the next chapter (see p. 248 note 2).

Ailios here claims that a promise made by Lindo has not been fulfilled, just as does Eriol, more politely, in the second version. The beginning of the tale in the first version is not extant, and perhaps as it was originally written Lindo did make this promise; but in the second he says no such thing (indeed Eriol's question was ‘Whence be the Sun and Moon?’), and at the end of his tale denies that he had done so, when Eriol asserts it.

Changes made to names in<BR><I>The Tale of the Sun and Moon</I>

<I>Amor    < Amnos (Amnos </I>is the form in <I>The Flight of the Nol-doli, < Emnon; </I>the form <I>Amnon </I>also occurs, see p. 192).

For changes in the passage on the names of the Sun see notes 12 and 13.

<I>Gilfanon    < Ailios </I>(p. 211, at the first occurrence only, see note 19).

<I>Minethlos    < Mainlos.</I>

<I>Uolë Kúvion < Uolë Mikúmi, </I>only at the second occurrence on p. 215; at the first occurrence, U<I>olë Mikúmi </I>was left unchanged, though I have given <I>Uolë Kúvion </I>in the text.

