---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P148. Kôr&#58; In a City Lost and Dead
date: 1983-01-01 02:28
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 148
characters: 
tags: ["poem"]
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
when he climbed the ‘long white stairs' of Tirion (<I>ibid.</I> p. 248).
</p>

It is not said here whether the shoots of Laurelin and Silpion that the Gods gave to Inwë and Nólemë, which ‘blossomed both eternally without abating’, were also givers of light, but later in the <I>Lost Tales</I> ([p. 240]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p240)), after the Flight of the Noldoli, the Trees of Kôr are again referred to, and there the trees given to Inwë ‘shone still’, while the trees given to Nólemë had been uprooted and ‘were gone no one knew whither.’ In <I>The Silmarillion</I> it is said that Yavanna made for the Vanyar and the Noldor ‘a tree like to a lesser image of Telperion, save that it did not give light of its own being’; it was ‘planted in the courts beneath the Mindon and there flourished, and its seedlings were many in Eldamar’. Thence came the Tree of Tol Eressëa.

In connection with this description of the city of the Elves in Valinor I give here a poem entitled <I>Kôr.</I> It was written on April 30th, 1915 (two days after <I>Goblin Feet</I> and <I>You and Me,</I> see pp. [19]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p19), [24]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p24)), and two texts of it are extant: the first, in manuscript, has a subtitle ‘In a City Lost and Dead’. The second, a typescript, was apparently first entitled <I>Kôr,</I> but this was changed to <I>The City of the Gods,</I> and the subtitle erased; and with this title the poem was published at Leeds in 1923.\* No changes were made to the text except that in the penultimate line ‘no bird sings' was altered already in the manuscript to ‘no voice stirs'. It seems possible, especially in view of the original subtitle, that the poem described Kôr after the Elves had left it.

<I>Kôr</I>

<I>In a City Lost and Dead</I>

<SUB>1</SUB> A sable hill, gigantic, rampart-crowned

<SUB>2</SUB> Stands gazing out across an azure sea

<SUB>3</SUB> Under an azure sky, on whose dark ground

<SUB>4</SUB> Impearled as against a floor of porphyry

<BR>
\* Publication was in a magazine called <I>The Microcosm,</I> edited by Dorothy Ratcliffe, Volume VIII no. 1, Spring 1923.

