---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P300. Appendix
date: 1983-01-01 05:00
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["APPENDIX. NAMES IN THE LOST TALES - PART I"]
page_num: 300
characters: ['Minethlos', 'Miruvor', 'Moritarnon', 'Mornië', 'Móru', 'Morwinyon']
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
<I>turinthi</I> ‘princess, especially title of Gwidhil’. Cf. <I>Sorontur, Valatúru, Tuor</I>.
</p>

There are also these later additions in GL: <I>‘Gwidhil-i-Durinthi—Meril-i-Turinqi</I> Queen of Flowers'; <I>gwethra</I> ‘bloom, flourish’; and the stem <I>gwedh-</I> is here compared to Qenya <I>mer-</I>, which is not in QL.

<B>Minethlos</B>   GL <I>min</I> ‘one, single’, <I>mindon</I> ‘tower, properly an isolated turret or peak’, <I>mineth</I> ‘island’, <I>Minethlos</I> ‘Argent Isle (Moon)’ — the same translation is given in the text, p. 215. Under root MĪ QL has <I>mir</I> ‘one’, m<I>inqë</I> ‘eleven’; and under root MINI <I>mindon</I> ‘turret’. The second element of <I>Minethlos</I> must in fact be l<I>ôs</I> ‘flower’ (see <I>[Gar Lossion]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Gar%20Lossion</I>)).

<B>Miruvor</B>   QL <I>miruvórë</I> ‘nectar, drink of the Valar’ (see [p. 179]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p179)), with <I>miru</I> ‘wine’; GL <I>mirofor (or gurmir</I>) ‘drink of the Gods', <I>mîr, miros</I> ‘wine’.

<B>Moritarnon</B>    ‘Door of Night’ (see <I>[Mornië]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Mornië</I>)). GL gives <I>tarn</I> ‘gate’, <I>tarnon</I> ‘porter’. Cf. <I>[Tarn Fui]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Tarn%20Fui</I>).

<B>Mornië</B>  Not in QL, but one of the many derivatives of root MORO, as <I>moru-</I> ‘to hide’, <I>mori</I> ‘night’, <I>morna, morqa</I> ‘black’, <I>morion</I> ‘son of the dark’. (A curious item is <I>Morwen</I> ‘daughter of the dark’, Jupiter. In the original tale of Turin his mother was not named Morwen.) The Gnomish name of the death-ship is <I>Mornir</I>, a later addition to original entries <I>mom</I> ‘dark, black,’ <I>morth</I> ‘darkness’, <I>mortna</I> ‘dim’, with the note ‘the black ship that plies between Mandos and Erumáni, Q. <I>Mornië</I> (Black Grief)’. The second element is therefore <I>nîr</I> ‘grief (< <I>nier-)</I>, to which Qenya <I>nyérë</I> is said to correspond. Cf. <I>[Moritarnon]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Moritarnon), [Móru]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Móru), [Morwinyon]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Morwinyon</I>).

<B>Móru</B>   GL in a later addition gives <I>Mum</I> ‘a name of the Primeval Night personified as Gwerlum or Gungliont’, hence my reading in the text <I>‘Móru</I> rather than <I>Mom</I> ([p. 172]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p172)). Among the original entries in GL is <I>múri</I> ‘darkness, night’. See <I>[Mornië]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Mornië</I>).

<B>Morwinyon</B>   This name of the star Arcturus is translated in the text ([p. 203]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p203)) as ‘the glint at dusk’, and QL, giving it under root MORO (see <I>[Mornië]({{site.baseurl}}/characters#Mornië</I>)), renders it ‘glint in the dark’. QL has a root GWINI with derivative word <I>wintil</I> ‘a glint’. The Gnomish name is <I>Morwinthi;</I> presumably connected

