---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P351.
date: 1983-01-01 05:51
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 351
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Foreword ix
</p>

sense of outrage — in one case formulated to me in the words ‘It's like <I>the Old Testament!’: </I>a dire condemnation against which, clearly, there can be no appeal (though this reader cannot have got very far before being overcome by the comparison). Of course, ‘The Silmarillion’ was intended to move the heart and the imagination, directly, and without peculiar effort or the possession of unusual faculties; but its mode is inherent, and it may be doubted whether any ‘approach’ to it can greatly aid those who find it unapproachable.

There is a third consideration (which Professor Shippey<BR>does not indeed advance in the same context):

One quality which <I>[The Lord of the Rings] </I>has in abundance is the Beowulfian ‘impression of depth’, created just as in the old epic by songs and digressions like Aragorn's lay of Tinú-viel, Sam Gamgee's allusions to the Silmaril and the Iron Crown, Elrond's account of Celebrimbor, and dozens more. This, however, is a quality of <I>The Lord of the Rings, </I>not of the inset stories. To tell these in their own right and expect them to retain the charm they got from their larger setting would be a terrible error, an error to which Tolkien would be more sensitive than any man alive. As he wrote in a revealing letter dated 20 September 1963:

I am doubtful myself about the undertaking [to write <I>The Silmarillion]. </I>Part of the attraction of The L.R. is, I think, due to the glimpses of a large history in the background: an attraction like that of viewing far off an unvisited island, or seeing the towers of a distant city gleaming in a sunlit mist. To go there is to destroy the magic, unless new unattainable vistas are again revealed. <I>(Letters, </I>p. 333)

<I>To go there is to destroy the magic. </I>As for the revealing of ‘new unattainable vistas', the problem there — as Tolkien must have thought many times — was that in <I>The Lord of the Rings </I>Middle-earth was already old, with a vast weight of history behind it. <I>The Silmarillion, </I>though, in its longer form, was bound to begin at the beginning. How could ‘depth’ be created when you had nothing to reach further back to?

The letter quoted here certainly shows that my father felt<BR>this, or perhaps rather one should say, at times felt this,

