---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P301.
date: 1983-01-01 05:01
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: [""]
page_num: 301
characters: 
tags: 
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
Appendix 301
</p>

nected are <I>gwim, gwinc </I>‘spark, flash’, <I>gwimla </I>‘wink, twinkle’.

<B>Murmenalda   </B>Translated in the text as ‘Vale of Sleep’, ‘the Slumbrous Dale’ (pp. 264, 267). QL under root MURU gives <I>muru- </I>‘to slumber’, <I>murmë </I>‘slumber’, <I>murmëa </I>‘slumbrous’. The second element is from a root NLDL, of which the derivatives in QL are <I>nal(lë) </I>‘dale, dell’ and <I>nalda </I>‘valley’ used as an adjective. In Gnomish occur <I>nal </I>‘dale, vale’, <I>nal </I>‘down, downwards’, <I>nalos </I>‘sinking, setting, slope’, <I>Nalosaura </I>‘sunset’, etc. Cf. <I>Murmuran.</I>

<B>Murmuran   </B>See <I>Murmenalda. </I>GL gives the Gnomish form corresponding to Qenya <I>Murmuran </I>as <I>Mormaurien </I>‘abode of Lúriel’, but this seems to be of different etymology: cf. <I>Malmaurien=Olórë Mallë, </I>the Path of Dreams, <I>maur </I>‘dream, vision’.

<B>Nandini   </B>On an isolated paper that gives a list of the different clans of ‘fays' the <I>Nandini </I>are ‘fays of the valleys'. QL gives a root NARA with derivatives <I>nan(d) </I>‘woodland’, <I>nandin </I>‘dryad’; GL has <I>nandir </I>‘fay of the country, Q. <I>nandin’, </I>together with <I>nand </I>‘field, acre’ (plural <I>nandin </I>‘country’), <I>nandor </I>‘farmer’, etc.

<B>Nauglath   </B>GL gives the following words: <I>naug </I>and <I>naugli </I>‘dwarf’, <I>naugla </I>‘of the dwarves', <I>nauglafel </I>‘dwarf-natured, i.e. mean, avaricious’ (see p. 268). QL has nothing corresponding, but in GL the Qenya equivalent of <I>naug </I>is said to be <I>nauka.</I>

<B>Neni Erúmëar </B>(On the ‘World-Ship’ drawing, where I have translated it ‘Outermost Waters', p. 88.) QL under root NENE ‘flow’ has <I>nen </I>‘river, water’, and the same form occurs in Gnomish. <I>Erúmëa </I>‘outer, outermost’ is given in QL as a derivative of ERE ‘out’, as in <I>Eruman. </I>Cf. <I>Koivië-néni.</I>

<B>Nermir   </B>In the list of fays referred to under <I>Nandini </I>the <I>Nermir </I>are ‘fays of the meads'. QL has an isolated entry <I>Nermi </I>‘a field-spirit’, and GL has <I>Nermil </I>‘a fay that haunts meadows and river-banks'.

Nessa   This name does not appear in the dictionaries. — In the Valar name-list she is called <I>Helinyetillë </I>and <I>Me-lesta. </I>In QL, among the very early entries, <I>helin </I>is the

