---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P115. Tinfang Warble
date: 1983-01-01 01:55
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 115
characters: 
tags: ["Commentary", "poem"]
description: 
published: true
---

It seems certain that this was a revision in intention only, never achieved. It is notable that in the actual text, as also in the first of these two ‘schemes', Rúmil's function in the house is that of door-ward — and Rúmil, not Evromord, was the name that was preserved long after as the recounter of The Music of the Ainur.

[4]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p111) The text as originally written read: ‘but the great Gods may not be slain, though their children may and all those lesser people of the Vali, albeit only at the hands of some one of the Valar.’

[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p111) <I>Vali</I> is an emendation from <I>Valar. </I>Cf. Rúmil's words ([p. 55]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p55)): ‘they whom we now call the Valar (or Vali, it matters not).’

<BR>
Commentary on <I>The Chaining of Melko</I>

In the interlude between this tale and the last we encounter the figure of Timpinen or Tinfang. This being had existed in my father's mind for some years, and there are two poems about him. The first is entitled <I>Tinfang Warble; </I>it is very brief, but exists in three versions. According to a note by my father the original was written at Oxford in 1914, and it was rewritten at Leeds in ‘1920-23.’ It was finally published in 1927 in a further altered form, which I give here.\*

<I>Tinfang Warble</I>

<SUB>1</SUB> O the hoot! O the hoot!

<SUB>2</SUB> How he trillups on his flute!

<SUB>3</SUB> O the hoot of Tinfang Warble!

<SUB>4</SUB> Dancing all alone,

<SUB>5</SUB> Hopping on a stone,

<SUB>6</SUB> Flitting like a fawn,

<SUB>7</SUB> In the twilight on the lawn,

<SUB>8</SUB> And his name is Tinfang Warble!

<SUB>9</SUB> The first star has shown

<SUB>10</SUB> And its lamp is blown

<BR>
\* Publication was in a periodical referred to in the cutting preserved from it as 'I.U.M[agazine]’).

