---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P122.
date: 1983-01-01 02:02
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["V. THE COMING OF THE ELVES AND THE MAKING OF KÔR"]
page_num: 122
characters: 
glossaries: ['pricks']
tags: ['Aulë', 'Eldar', 'Great Lands', 'Ilúvatar', 'Lórien', 'Manwë', 'Melko']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
hammer saying: “Then Ilúvatar hath sent them at last,” and the hammer striking some ingots of silver upon the floor did of its magic smite silver sparks to life, that flashed from his windows out into the heavens. Varda seeing this took of that radiance in the bason and mingled it with molten silver to make it more stable, and fared upon her wings of speed, and set stars about the firmament in very great profusion, so that the skies grew marvellously fair and their glory was doubled; and those stars that she then fashioned have a power of slumbers, for the silver of their bodies came of the treasury of Lórien and their radiance had lain in Telimpë long time in his garden.
</p>

Some have said that the Seven Stars were set at that time by Varda to commemorate the coming of the Eldar, and that Morwinyon who blazes above the world's edge in the west was dropped by her as she fared in great haste back to Valinor. Now this is indeed the true beginning of Morwinyon and his beauty, yet the Seven Stars were not set by Varda, being indeed the sparks from Aulë's forge whose brightness in the ancient heavens urged Varda to make their rivals; yet this did she never achieve.

But now even as Varda is engaged in this great work, behold, Oromë pricks over the plain, and drawing rein he shouts aloud so that all the ears in Valmar may hear him: <I>“Tulielto! Tulieito!</I> They have come — they have come!” Then he stands midway between the Two Trees and winds his horn, and the gates of Valmar are opened, and the Vali troop into the plain, for they guess that tidings of wonder have come into the world. Then spake Oromë: “Behold the woods of the Great Lands, even in Palisor the midmost region where the pinewoods murmur unceasingly, are full of a strange noise. There did I wander, and lo! 'twas as if folk arose betimes beneath the latest stars. There was a stir among the distant trees and words were spoken suddenly, and feet went to and fro. Then did I say what is this deed that Palúrien my mother has wrought in secret, and I sought her out and questioned her, and she answered: ‘This is no work of mine, but the hand of one far greater did this. Ilúvatar hath awakened his children at the last — ride home to Valinor and tell the Gods that the Eldar have come indeed!’ ”

Then shouted all the people of Valinor: <I>”I-Eldar tulier</I> —

