---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P266.
date: 1983-01-01 04:26
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["X. GILFANON'S TALE: THE TRAVAIL OF THE NOLDOLI AND THE COMING OF MANKIND"]
page_num: 266
characters: 
tags: ['Avari', 'Dark Elves', 'Eldalië', 'Eldar', 'Eriol', 'Fairies', 'Fay(s)', 'Gnomish', 'Gnome-speech', 'tongue of the Gnomes', 'Gilfanon', 'language of the Gods', 'Ilkorin(s)', 'Inwir', 'Kôr', 'Mandos', 'lost fairies', 'Melko', 'Middle lands', 'Men', 'Nuin', 'Palisor', 'Qendi', 'Teleri']
description: 
published: true
---

<p style="text-indent: 0;">
but there are some points of difference between the outlines and the tale to be noted.
</p>

A and B call the wizard-king Túvo, not Tû; in C he is not named, and in D he is Tû ‘the fay’, as in the tale. Evil associations of this being appear in A: ‘Melko meets with Túvo in the halls of Mandos during his enchainment. He teaches Túvo much black magic.’ This was struck out, and nothing else is said of the matter; but both A and B say that it was after the escape of Melko and the ruin of the Trees that Túvo entered the world and ‘set up a wizard kingship in the middle lands'.

In A, only, the Elves who remained behind in Palisor are said to have been of the people of the Teleri (the later Vanyar). This passage of <I>Gilfanon's Tale</I> is the first indication we have had that there were any such Elves (see [p. 142]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p142)); and I incline to think that the conception of the Dark Elves (the later Avari) who never undertook the journey from the Waters of Awakening only emerged in the course of the composition of the <I>Lost Tales</I>. But the name <I>Qendi</I>, which here first appears in the early narratives, is used somewhat ambiguously. In the fragment of the written tale, the words ‘those who remained behind are they whom many call the Qendi, the lost fairies of the world,<SUP>[5]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p278)</SUP> but ye Elves of Kôr name Ilkorins’ seem an altogether explicit statement that Qendi=Dark Elves; but a little later Gilfanon speaks of ‘the Eldar or Qendi’, and in the outline B it is said that ‘a number of the original folk called Qendi (the name Eldar being given by the Gods) remained in Palisor’. These latter statements seem to show equally clearly that <I>Qendi</I> was intended as a term for all Elves.

The contradiction is however only apparent. <I>Qendi</I> was indeed the original name of all the Elves, and <I>Eldar</I> the name given by the Gods and adopted by the Elves of Valinor; those who remained behind preserved the old name <I>Qendi</I>. The early word-list of the Gnomish tongue states explicitly that the name <I>Elda</I> was given to the ‘fairies' by the Valar and was ‘adopted largely by them; the Ilkorins still preserved the old name <I>Qendi</I>, and this was adopted as the name of the reunited clans in Tol Eressëa’.<SUP>[6]({{site.baseurl}}/vol01-p279)</SUP>

In both A and B it is added that ‘the Gods spoke not among themselves the tongues of the Eldalië, but could do so, and they comprehended all tongues. The wiser of the Elves learned the secret speech of the Gods and long treasured it, but after the coming to Tol Eressëa none remembered it save the Inwir,

