---
layout: post
title: 【Vol.01】P99. IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO
date: 1983-01-01 01:39
categories: ["Vol.01 The Book of Lost Tales I"]
chapters: ["IV. THE CHAINING OF MELKO"]
page_num: 99
characters: 
tags: ['Eriol', 'Gnomes', 'Littleheart']
description: 
published: true
---

Following the end of Rúmil's tale of <I>The Coming of the Valar and the Building of Valinor</I> there is a long interlude before the next one, though the manuscript continues without even interrupting the paragraph. But on the cover of the notebook <I>The Chaining of Melko</I> is given as a separate title, and I have adopted this. The text continues in ink over an erased pencil manuscript.

That night Eriol heard again in his sleep the music that had so moved him on the first night; and the next morning he went again into the gardens early. There he met Vairë, and she called him <I>Eriol:</I> ‘that was the first making and uttering of that name’. Eriol told Vairë of the ‘dream-musics' he had heard, and she said that it was no dream-music, but rather the flute of Timpinen, ‘whom those Gnomes Rúmil and Little-heart and others of my house call Tinfang’. She told him that the children called him Tinfang Warble; and that he played and danced in summer dusks for joy of the first stars: ‘at every note a new one sparkles forth and glisters. The Noldoli say that they come out too soon if Tinfang Warble plays, and they love him, and the children will watch often from the windows lest he tread the shadowy lawns unseen.’ She told Eriol that he was ‘shier than a fawn — swift to hide and dart away as any vole: a footstep on a twig and he is away, and his fluting will come mocking from afar’.

‘And a marvel of wizardry liveth in that fluting,’ said Eriol, ‘if that it be indeed which I have heard now for two nights here.’

‘There be none,’ said Vairë, ‘not even of the Solosimpi,

